BACKGROUND: Rivaroxaban is currently used to prevent stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. Measuring coagulation function may help clinicians to understand the effects of this drug and the associated risk of bleeding. METHODS AND RESULTS: Rivaroxaban was given to 136 patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Mean age was 74.5+/-9.0 years (men: 63.2%) and mean CHADS2 score (+/-SD) was 1.8+/-1.2. Prothrombin times (PTs) and plasma soluble fibrin (SF) levels were examined in 84 out of 136 patients at baseline and at least 2 weeks thereafter. In 48 patients we were able to collect blood at exact times, namely just before and 3h after rivaroxaban administration, corresponding to the trough and peak concentrations. Mean peak PT in 48 patients was 17.1+/-3.6s and median peak SF level was 1.46mug/mL. Multiple regression analysis showed that female sex, high brain natriuretic peptide, and high dose were independent factors prolonging the peak PT. Patients with peak PTs >/=20s experienced significantly more bleeding events. Among 29 of 46 patients newly treated with rivaroxaban without any previous anticoagulant, we examined coagulation function at the exact trough and peak times. In 29 patients, peak PT was significantly more prolonged than the baseline or trough PT (p<0.001 for both), whereas trough PT was comparable to the baseline PT. In contrast, both trough and peak SF levels in these newly treated patients were significantly reduced than at baseline (p=0.003 and p<0.001, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: In Japanese patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation receiving rivaroxaban, a prolonged peak PT (>/=20s) could indicate increased risk of bleeding, and both trough and peak SF levels were reduced relative to baseline. PT and SF are both valuable measures of coagulation status in patients receiving rivaroxaban, regardless of prior anticoagulant history.
We present a set of DNA supramolecular architectures based on the polymerization of discrete DNA tiles having the shape of parallelograms and designed to have a one-dimensional inter-tile connectivity. Tiles bind to each other with two connections, which have different thermal stabilities. We discuss how this difference in stability implies that the same monomeric tile can yield supramolecular polymers of different shapes just by changing the polymerization conditions. We show how this system reacts to external stimuli by interconverting between some of its possible states. Concurrently, we show how performing the polymerization on a surface can influence its outcome.
BACKGROUND: Zhang's phenomenon (originally His electrogram alternans) is a new index of atrioventricular node dual pathway electrophysiology. This index has been described and validated in isolated hearts in vitro, but has not been recorded in vivo. METHODS: This study explored the feasibility of in vivo recording of Zhang's phenomenon (His electrogram alternans) in six dogs with a custom-built bipolar electrode. RESULTS: The His electrogram recorded from superior His bundle domain (superior His electrogram) was high in amplitude at basic beats and long coupling intervals (i.e., fast pathway conduction) and low amplitude at short prematurities (i.e., slow pathway conduction). In contrast, His electrogram recorded from the inferior His bundle domain (inferior His electrogram) was always from low amplitude during fast pathway conduction to high amplitude during slow pathway conduction. The characteristic His electrogram alternans had been recorded in vivo in all six animals. CONCLUSIONS: This study provided the first data representing in vivo recording of Zhang's phenomenon (His electrogram alternans) in large animals. Clinical studies are needed before this novel index can be applied in patients.
In living organisms, the integration of signals from the environment and the molecular computing leading to a cellular response are orchestrated by Gene Regulatory Networks (GRN). However, the molecular complexity of in vivo genetic regulation makes it next to impossible to describe in a quantitative manner. Reproducing, in vitro, reaction networks that could mimic the architecture and behavior of in vivo networks, yet lend themselves to mathematical modeling, represents a useful strategy to understand, and even predict, the function of GRN. In this paper, we define a set of in vitro, DNA-based molecular transformations that can be linked to each other in such a way that the product of one transformation can activate or inhibit the production of one or several other DNA compounds. Therefore, these reactions can be wired in arbitrary networks. This approach provides an experimental way to reproduce the dynamic features of genetic regulation in a test tube. We introduce the rules to design the necessary DNA species, a guide to implement the chemical reactions and ways to optimize the experimental conditions. We finally show how this framework, or "DNA toolbox", can be used to generate an inversion module, though many other behaviors, including oscillators and bistable switches, can be implemented.
As CMVR continues to affect HIV-positive and non-HIV immunosuppressed patients, ophthalmologists must continue to tailor diagnostics and therapeutics to individual cases. In HIV-related disease, ocular fluid sampling and intravitreal drug delivery are considerations, but systemic antiviral therapy is paramount in the initial management from both ophthalmic and systemic morbidity standpoints. Non-HIV-related disease should be approached with a multidisciplinary team, including an ophthalmologist/vitreoretinal/uveitis specialist for consideration of intravitreal antiviral therapy with qualitative and quantitative aqueous PCR monitoring, and consideration of PCR genome sequencing for CMV strains that may become resistant to antiviral therapies from long-term antiviral prophylactic exposure. Hematologists or oncologists may help with patients who remain bone marrow-suppressed following transplantation or systemic chemotherapy. Because of related toxicities of the anti-CMV medications and immunosuppressive medications (eg, bone marrow suppression and cytopenias), infectious disease consultation can help in the treatment and monitoring of side effects.
Recently adopted international texts have given a new focus on conflicts of interests and access to information resulting from biomedical research. They confirmed ethical review committees as a central point to guarantee individual rights and the effective application of ethical principles. Therefore specific attention should be paid in giving such committees all the facilities necessary to keep them independent and qualified.
To help resolve the systematic position of Myospalacine (zokors) and to clarify the phylogenetic relationships among zokor species, complete mitochondrial 12S rRNA and cytochrome b gene sequences were determined for seven zokor species from China. Phylogenetic relationships among all extant zokors, except the Siberian zokor (Myospalax myospalax) and Smith's zokor (Eospalax smithi), were reconstructed with the Chinese bamboo rat (Rhizomys sinensis) as an outgroup. Our results support the generic status of Eospalax and also support the validity of the specific status of Eospalax cansus, Eospalax baileyi and Eospalax rufescens.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to identify the present situation of hospital infection and route of infection by clarifying the transmission aspect of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus(MRSA) in a Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit by analysing genotype. METHODS: MRSA was cultured from twenty five patients with a tracheostomy, twenty five health care workers, and environments in the Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit of one hospital in D city. Data was collected from December 21, 2004 to November 5, 2005. MRSA isolates representing each genotype were analyzed by spaA typing and a multiplex PCR method capable of identifying the structural type of the staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec(SCCmec) carried by the bacteria. RESULTS: As the same genotype and gene sequence were found among health care workers, patients, and environments, it was assumed that there was cross transmission among them. CONCLUSION: This study suggests that first, as the hospital infection by MRSA between health care workers and patients in the Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit was due to result of cross transmission and the relevance of transmission between them was verified, it is necessary to take preventive measures and conduct education. Secondly, development of nursing interventions and study of infection are needed. Thirdly, consistent investment in prevention against hospital infections and environmental renovation is needed.
OBJECTIVE: To study transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) autoproduction in keloid fibroblasts and the regulation effect of blocking TGF-beta intracellular signaling on rhTGF-beta1 autoproduction. METHODS: Keloid fibroblasts cultured in vitro were treated with either rhTGF-beta1 (5 ng/ml) or recombinant adenovirus containing a truncated type II TGF-beta receptor gene (50 pfu/cell). Their effects of regulating gene expression of TGF-beta1 and its receptor I and II were observed with Northern blot. RESULTS: rhTGF-beta1 up-regulated the gene expression of TGF-beta1 and receptor I, but not receptor II. Over-expression of the truncated receptor II down-regulated the gene expression of TGF-beta1 and its receptor I, but not receptor II. CONCLUSIONS: TGF-beta1 autoproduction was observed in keloid fibroblasts. Over-expression of the truncated TGFbeta receptor II decreased TGF-beta1 autoproduction via blocking TGF-beta receptor signaling.
Recent papers have reported the fundamental roles of miR-497 in infarction which acute myocardial infarction (AMI) belongs to. However, the expression levels of miR-497 in AMI patients were unclear, especially the circulating miR-497 that was detectable in the human plasma. In this study, we focused on the expression levels of circulating miR-497 in AMI and the roles of plasma miR-497 as a promising biomarker for AMI. The plasma miR-497 levels were detected from 27 AMI patients and 31 healthy volunteers by qRT-PCR. The cTnI concentrations of these samples were also analyzed by ELISA. Results showed circulating miR-497 levels were upregulated in AMI patients at 4 h, 8 h, 12 h, and 24 h, by contrast to those in control. Interestingly, time courses of circulating miR-497 levels displayed similar trends to that of cTnI concentrations in AMI patients; further study revealed the high correlation between circulating miR-497 and cTnI concentrations (r = 0.573, P < 0.001). At last, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was performed and declared that there was a faithworthy sensitivity and specificity to identify the AMI patients by using circulating miR-497. In conclusion, circulating miR-497 might be a promising biomarker for AMI identification and there was high association between human miR-497 and acute myocardial infarction.
Terminal oxidases provide the final step in aerobic respiration by reducing oxygen. The mycobacteria possess two terminal oxidases: a cytochrome c aa3 type and a quinol bd type. We previously isolated a bd-type oxidase knockout mutant of Mycobacterium smegmatis that allowed for functional analysis of the aa3 type without the contribution of bd-type activity. Growth of M. smegmatis LR222 and JAM1 (LR222bd::kan) was monitored and the cytochrome content at different time points examined. No difference in aerobic growth was observed between M. smegmatis LR222 and JAM1. Membranes were obtained from these cultures and the oxidase concentrations were calculated from their spectrum. Although the mutant was producing only one oxidase type, this oxidase did not reach wild-type levels of expression, suggesting an additional mechanism for energizing the membrane. Moreover, the concentration of both oxidases in the wild-type strain dropped when cultures entered stationary phase, which was not the case for the aa3-type oxidase of the mutant strain. This oxidase remained at a constant concentration post mid-log phase. RNase protection assays also demonstrated late growth phase dependent message expression of the bd oxidase and that the subunits I and II genes were cotranscribed as an operon.
Fetal cells enter maternal circulation during pregnancy and persist in the woman's body for decades, achieving a form of physiological microchimerism. These cells were also evidenced in tumors. We investigated the frequency and concentration of fetal microchimerism in the local breast cancer environment. From 19 patients with confirmed breast neoplasia, after breast surgical resection, we collected three fresh specimens from the tumor core, breast tissue at tumor periphery, and adjacent normal breast tissue. The presence of male DNA was analyzed with a quantitative PCR assay for the sex determining region gene (SRY) gene. In the group of women who had given birth to at least one son, we detected fetal microchimerism in 100% of samples from tumors and their periphery and in 64% (9 of 14) of those from normal breast tissue. The tissues from the tumor and its periphery carry a significantly increased number of SRY copies compared to its neighboring common breast tissue (p = 0.005). The median of the normalized SRY-signal was about 77 (range, 3.2-21467) and 14-fold (range, 1.3-2690) greater in the tumor and respectively in the periphery than in the normal breast tissue. In addition, the relative expression of the SRY gene had a median 5.5 times larger in the tumor than in its periphery (range, 1.1-389.4). We found a heterogeneous distribution of fetal microchimerism in breast cancer environment. In women with sons, breast neoplasia harbors male cells at significantly higher levels than in peripheral and normal breast tissue.
The retrohoming of the yeast mtDNA intron aI1 occurs by a target DNA-primed reverse transcription (TPRT) mechanism in which the intron RNA reverse splices directly into the recipient DNA and is then copied by the intron-encoded reverse transcriptase. Here, we carried out biochemical characterization of the intron-encoded reverse transcriptase and site-specific DNA endonuclease activities required for this process. We show that the aI1 reverse transcriptase has high TPRT activity in the presence of appropriate DNA target sites, but differs from the closely related reverse transcriptase encoded by the yeast aI2 intron in being unable to use artificial substrates efficiently. Characterization of TPRT products shows that the fully reverse spliced intron RNA is an efficient template for cDNA synthesis, while reverse transcription of partially reverse spliced intron RNA is impeded by the branch point. Novel features of the aI1 reaction include a prominent open-circular product in which cDNAs are incorporated at a nick at the antisense-strand cleavage site. The aI1 endonuclease activity, which catalyzes the DNA cleavage and reverse splicing reactions, is associated with ribonucleoprotein particles containing the intron-encoded protein and the excised intron RNA. As shown for the aI2 endonuclease, both the RNA and protein components are used for DNA target site recognition, but the aI1 protein has less stringent nucleotide sequence requirements for the reverse splicing reaction. Finally, perhaps reflecting this relaxed target specificity, in vitro experiments show that aI1 can reverse splice directly into ectopic mtDNA transposition sites, consistent with the previously suggested possibility that this mechanism is used for ectopic transposition of group II introns in vivo.
Equine myeloencephalopathy (EHM), an uncommon manifestation of equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) infection, can cause devastating losses on individual farms, boarding stables, veterinary hospitals, and show and racing venues. An improved understanding of EHM has emerged from experimental studies and from data collected during field outbreaks at riding schools, racetracks, horse shows, and veterinary hospitals throughout North America and Europe. These outbreaks have highlighted the contagious nature of EHV-1 and have prompted a reevaluation of diagnostic procedures, treatment modalities, preventative measures, and biosecurity protocols for this disease. This article focuses on recent data related to the cause, epidemiology, pathogenesis, immunity, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of EHV-1 infection with emphasis on EHM.
Prospective cohort studies about cutaneous melanoma (CM) risk are still few. Host factor- and UVR exposure data were collected prospectively by questionnaire in this population-based cohort study including 40,000 Swedish born women, aged 25-64 years at enrolment (1990). Risk for CM (Cox regression and Stepwise Cox regression [SCR], hazard ratios [HRs] with 95% Confidence Intervals [CI]) in relation to risk factors, age groups (older or younger than 40 years) and primary site, were analyzed. In 29,520 women with complete follow-up through 2007, 155 invasive and 60 in situ CM were recorded. High numbers of nevi (HR, 2.9; 95% CI, 1.7-5.0) and heredity (HR, 3.7; 95% CI, 2.0-6.8) were associated with risk for CM. SCR analysis added red hair as a risk factor. Sunbed use >10 times/year increased risk for women <40 years (HR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.0-6.2) and a trend for risk associated with sunbathing vacations (HR, 1.4; 95% CI, 1.0-2.0) was shown for women >40 years. Trunk melanoma showed correlations with high numbers of nevi (HR, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.2-7.3) and heredity (HR, 3.2; 95% CI, 1.1-9.4). Head/neck site was correlated to sunbathing vacations (HR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.2-5.3) and heredity (HR, 7.6; 95% CI, 1.8-31.8). Our study supports divergent etiologic pathways to CM, with high numbers of nevi correlated to increased risk for trunk CM. Furthermore, it confirms that high numbers of nevi, red hair and heredity for CM are the most important risk factors and frequent sunbed use might be a risk factor for younger women.
The antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the presence of antibodies against beta2-Glycoprotein I (abeta2-GPI), cardiolipin (aCL) and lupus anticoagulant combined with venous or arterial thrombosis and/or foetal losses. A 28-year-old female was positive for abeta2-GPI, aCL, aPT (antibodies against prothrombin) and lupus anticoagulant. She had two miscarriages and a deep vein thrombosis event. The patient plasma fibrinogen and IgG concentrations were two times higher than control. Fibrinolysis was induced in vitro adding tPA, before clotting plasma with 0.03 or 0.6 IU/ml thrombin, and in purified system with normal fibrinogen in the presence of 0.5 mg/ml of patient or normal IgG. The APS patient had 1.5 and 1.9 times higher clot rate formation (CRL) and maximum absorbance (MaxAbsL) at both thrombin concentrations. At 0.6 IU/ml of thrombin, the patient delay on fibrin polymerization onset was corrected. The patient Lys50MA (time needed for 50% clot dissolution) was slower (P < 0.05) at 0.03 IU/ml of thrombin; however, the lysis rate was faster at both thrombin concentrations. After adjusting the polymerization and fibrinolytic parameters according to the sample plasma fibrinogen concentration, there were almost no differences between patient and control at 0.6 IU/ml. In an IgG-fibrinogen purified system, fibrinolysis was equivalent in the presence of patient or normal IgG. In conclusion, the patient IgG fraction has no inhibitors against proteins of the fibrinolytic pathway. The differences observed between the APS patient and the control were more evident at low thrombin concentration due to the presence of aPT.
Hydrogen sulfide is enzymatically produced in mammalian tissues and functions as a gaseous transmitter. However, H(2)S is also highly toxic as it inhibits mitochondrial respiration at the level of cytochrome c oxidase, which additionally is involved in sulfide oxidation. The accumulation of toxic sulfide levels contributes to the pathology of some diseases. This paper demonstrates that sulfide toxicity can be modified, and dehydroascorbic acid functions as an effector in this process. It significantly reduces the inhibitory effect of sulfide on cytochrome c oxidase, resulting in higher rates of respiration and sulfide oxidation in rat mitochondria. After the addition of dehydroascorbic acid mitochondria maintained more than 50% of the oxygen consumption and ATP production rates with different substrates in the presence of high concentrations of sulfide that would normally lead to complete inhibition. Dehydroascorbic acid significantly increased the sulfide concentration necessary to cause half maximal inhibition of mitochondrial respiration and thus completely prevented inhibition at low, physiological sulfide concentrations. In addition, sulfide oxidation was stimulated and led to ATP production even at high concentrations. The decrease in sulfide toxicity was more pronounced when analyzing supermolecular functional units of the respiratory chain than in isolated cytochrome c oxidase activity. Furthermore, the protective effect of dehydroascorbic acid at high sulfide concentrations was completely abolished by quantitative solubilization of mitochondrial membrane proteins with dodeclymaltoside. These results suggest that binding of cytochrome c oxidase to other proteins probably within respiratory chain supercomplexes is involved in the modulation of sulfide oxidation and toxicity by dehydroascorbic acid.
CD4(+) CD25(+) FoxP3(+) T-regulatory cells (Treg) and CD3(+) CD8(+) CD28(-) T-suppressor cells (Ts) were shown to have immunosuppressive function in vivo and in vitro. However, the in vitro inducibility of Ts subsets is rather unclear. We investigated the induction of Treg and Ts subsets in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 5 healthy control individuals during stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)/ionomycin or phytohemagglutinin (PHA). Phenotypes were analyzed 0, 4, 8, 16, and 24 hours after initiation of cell culture using 4-color fluorescence flow-cytometry. Number of CD4(+) CD25(+) FoxP3(+) CD127(-) Treg increased during PMA/ionomycin or PHA stimulation (P < .01). CD4(+) CD25(+) FoxP3(+) Treg coexpressed the phenotypes interleukin (IL)-2(-), IL-10(+), and/or transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta(+) after stimulation (all P < .01). Interferon (IFN)-gamma production was induced only by PMA/ionomycin (P < .01) but not by PHA (P = NS). IFN-gamma-secreting Treg were detectable at 4 hours whereas IL-2(-), IL-10(+) and/or TGF-beta(+) Treg required 16 hours of stimulation. In contrast, CD3(+) CD8(+) CD28(-) Ts phenotypes were not inducible during 24-hour PMA/ionomycin or PHA stimulation (all P = NS). However, Ts coexpressed IL-10 and/or TGF-beta during polyclonal stimulation (all P < .01), whereas the proportion of IL-2(-) Ts remained stable during the cell culture period (P = NS). Similar to Treg, IFN-gamma-secreting Ts were detected only during PMA/ionomycin stimulation (P < .01), but not during PHA stimulation (P = NS). We conclude that the proportion of CD3(+) CD8(+) CD28(-) Ts remains stable during polyclonal stimulation. They modify only the cytokine pattern indicating activation of the Ts. In contrast, CD4(+) CD25(+) FoxP3(+) CD127(-) Treg are inducible by PMA/ionomycin and PHA stimulation. IFN-gamma- secreting Treg form the first line of immunoregulatory T cells during an initiated immune response followed by IL-2(-), IL-10(+), and/or TGF-beta(+) Treg.
In pulmonary drug delivery, the ability of an affinity molecule to bind to lung epithelium may prolong retention of therapeutic molecules within the lung and consequently yield higher overall bioavailability. To this end, we screened a library of structurally constrained peptides ('aptides') using phage-display technology and identified a high-affinity aptide for the mouse nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-alpha1 (nAChR-alpha1). The isolated aptide (APTnAChR-alpha1) bound to its target protein with high affinity (Kd=47nM). Alexa 488-labeled APTnAChR-alpha1 showed preferential binding to nAChR-alpha1-positive mouse lung epithelial cells and mouse muscle cells. Furthermore, the aptide exhibited substantial binding in nAChR-alpha1-positive tissue sections of muscle, trachea and lung, but not in liver, kidney or spleen tissues, which are nAChR-alpha1-negative. In an in vivo experiment, a high-intensity fluorescence signal was observed in the entire lung up to 50h after tracheal injection of Cy5.5-APTnAChR-alpha1, whereas most of the fluorescence signal from a Cy5.5-labeled scrambled peptide washed out within 20h after injection. Taken together, these results indicate that the high-affinity peptide for nAChR-alpha1 identified here bound tightly to lung epithelium and thus exhibited a long residence time in this tissue, suggesting that the peptide could be used for pulmonary delivery of active pharmaceuticals.
Prior to binding to a high affinity peptide and transporting it to the cell surface, major histocompatibility complex class I molecules are retained inside the cell by retention in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), recycling through the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment and possibly the cis-Golgi, or both. Using fluorescence microscopy and a novel in vitro COPII (ER-to-ER-Golgi intermediate compartment) vesicle formation assay, we find that in both lymphocytes and fibroblasts that lack the functional transporter associated with antigen presentation, class I molecules exit the ER and reach the cis-Golgi. Intriguingly, in wild-type T1 lymphoma cells, peptide-occupied and peptide-receptive class I molecules are simultaneously exported from ER membranes with similar efficiencies. Our results suggest that binding of high affinity peptide and exit from the ER are not coupled, that the major histocompatibility complex class I quality control compartment extends into the Golgi apparatus under standard conditions, and that peptide loading onto class I molecules may occur in post-ER compartments.
Nanoemulsions are composed of nanoscale droplets of one immiscible liquid dispersed within another, which have been the focus of extensive research worldwide due to their solubilization and transportation capacity of both hydrophobic and hydrophilic active compounds with unique physical properties. In a broad sense, submicron-emulsion, microemulsion, self-microemulsifing drug delivery system, lipid emulsion and cholesterol-rich microemulsion (LDE) all belong to nanoemulsions. The review starts with a brief introduction to the definition, formulation rationale, and types of nanoemulaions, and focused on, by different administration routes such as the oral, intravenous, transdermal, ocular nasal and rectal routes, the absorption, disposition, pharmacokinetics properties of nanoemulsions.
Nutrients, drugs, and hormones influence transcription during differentiation and metabolism by binding to high-affinity nuclear receptors. In the absence of ligand, some but not all nuclear receptors repress transcription as a heterodimer with retinoid X receptor (RXR). Here we define a novel role for helix 12 (H12) in sterically masking the corepressor (CoR) binding site in apo-RXR. Removing H12 converts RXR to a potent transcriptional repressor. The length but not the specific sequence of H12 is critical for masking RXR's intrinsic repression function. This contrasts with the amphipathic character required for mediating ligand-dependent activation and coactivator recruitment. Physiologically, we show that heterodimerization of RXR with apo-thyroid hormone receptor (TR) unmasks the CoR binding site in RXR and allows the TR-RXR heterodimer to repress. A molecular mechanism that involves sequence-specific interaction between RXR H12 and the coactivator-binding surface of the nuclear receptor is proposed for this heterodimerization-mediated unmasking. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma does not interact as well with RXR H12, thus explaining its inability to repress transcription as an RXR heterodimer. The requirement to unmask RXR's latent repression function explains why only certain RXR partners repress transcription.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: PGP9.5 is a ubiquitin hydrolase widely expressed in neuronal tissue at all stages of neuronal differentiation and has been used as a neuroendocrine marker. Recently, it has been proved that PGP9.5 expression was highly observed in squamous cell carcinoma of lung cancer, suggesting that it might be a tumor marker for squamous cell carcinoma. To better characterize its role in digestive tract cancers, we examined PGP9.5 expression retrospectively in esophageal cancers. METHODOLOGY: We examined PGP9.5 expression retrospectively in 40 resected esophageal cancers (squamous cell carcinoma) and 10 gastric cancers (adenocarcinoma) using immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Of 40 esophageal cancer specimens, 19 (48%) exhibited positive staining with PGP9.5 in most tumor cells, while no PGP9.5 expression was observed in any of the 10 gastric cancers. CONCLUSIONS: Although the precise mechanism underlying the effect of PGP9.5 on oncogenicity remains to be proven, it was confirmed that it may be a potential marker for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
In recent years, oral propranolol has risen from serendipitous discovery to first-line, albeit off-label, therapy for infantile hemangiomas (IHs). This retrospective study explored the utility of a 24-hour hospitalization for the initiation of propranolol therapy in children with problematic IHs by evaluating the effects of systemic propranolol on hemodynamics and blood sugar levels. Thirty-one children were admitted to the hospital to begin oral propranolol at a dose of 2 mg/kg/per day. Heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), and blood glucose (BG) measurements were obtained at baseline and 1 to 3 hours before and after each dose of propranolol. No caregivers reported any adverse effects during the hospitalization. On average, HR decreased by 5 beats per minute (bpm) (p < 0.01) and systolic BP decreased by 4 mmHg (p < 0.01) after propranolol administration. There was no statistically significant change in diastolic BP or BG with propranolol therapy. Over the first three doses of propranolol we saw statistically significant attenuation of the effects of propranolol on HR, with HR approaching baseline values during the hospitalization (p = 0.04). We did not see statistically significant changes in BP over the course of three doses of propranolol. This study suggests that 24-hour hospitalization with hemodynamic monitoring may not be necessary for safe initiation of propranolol therapy in otherwise healthy infants. Parental education on frequent feedings to decrease the chance of hypoglycemia may be as effective as 24-hour hospitalization.
Opercula of teeth delayed in eruption were examined histopathologically and immunohistochemically to determine the possible causes for tooth eruption failure. Specimens were obtained from 58 patients with non-erupted teeth by surgical removal of their gingival opercula. Among the 61 specimens, 31 (50.8%) were diagnosed as pericoronal myxofibrous hyperplasia (PMH), 8 (13.1%) as infantile ameloblastic fibromatosis (IAF), and 19 (31.2%) as odontomas. Histopathologically, PMH is characterized by hyperplasia of odontogenic mesenchymal tissues with a myxoid appearance in which odontogenic epithelial islands and mesenchymal multinucleated giant cells are scattered randomly. Between the mucosal epithelium and the PMH, there is a layer of fibrosis, whose matrix is strongly immunopositive for tenascin. The PMH seems to induce its overlying gingival mucosa to remodel the connective tissue, which obstructs tooth eruption. IAF is usually located adjacent to the PMH and shows an ameloblastic fibroma-like histology with atrophic ameloblastic components and poor encapsulation. The findings suggest that IAF associated with PMH is not a true neoplasm and should be distinguished from ameloblastic fibromas by the name of IAF, and that both lesions are included in the range of hamartomas formed only in the pericoronal tissue of teeth in eruption. We propose to categorize these lesions into a new disease entity of pericoronal hamartomas of odontogenic origin.
The present report is a case control study aimed to determine the levels of cytokines and other parameters in the sera of allergy-complicated and uncomplicated giardiasic children before and after metronidazole treatment. The study included a total of 126 subjects; 52 giardiasic children, 34 allergy-complicated giardiasis (36.9%) and 34 healthy controls, as well as six cases of giardiasis simultaneously infected with other parasites or bacterial pathogens. Serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-1beta, soluble IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R), IL-6, IL-8, nitric oxide (NO), and C-reactive protein (CRP) were determined. TNF-alpha and sIL-2R levels significantly increased in giardiasic cases. IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, CRP, and NO levels increased only in the cases associated with allergy. All increased variables significantly decreased following metronidazole treatment and returned to normal levels. Metronidazole-treated patients became 100% parasite free. In conclusion, increased TNF-alpha and sIL-2R may be involved in pathogenesis of non-allergic giardiasis and probably Th1 type immune response seems to be predominant and this response may be protective rather than causative of the disease. Activation of the immune system takes place in giardiasis. It is broader and more intense in allergy-complicated giardiasis than that of uncomplicated cases, most probably due to non-invasive character of G. lamblia. Enhanced IgE production pointed to Th2-type immune response and confirms its association with allergy.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize the subtypes of ameloblastoma by differentiation markers. STUDY DESIGN: Expression of 9 major acidic epithelial keratins was immunohistochemically examined in 28 ameloblastomas. RESULTS: Keratin 15 (K15) expression patterns corresponded to histological variants: follicular, plexiform and acanthomatous. Tumor nests comprising K15-expressing basal cells mimicked oral epithelium or dental lamina, and tumor nests comprising K15-negative basal cells mimicked outer enamel epithelium. Keratin 19 (K19) was consistently expressed in solid/multicystic ameloblastoma and unicystic ameloblastoma, while peripheral ameloblastoma and desmoplastic ameloblastoma contained K19-negative cells. CONCLUSIONS: The 4 current subtypes had unvaried expression patterns within each group. However, they could be divided into 2 groups by K19 expression pattern: solid/multicystic and unicystic versus extraosseous/peripheral and desmoplastic. K15 expression pattern represented various types of differentiation for tumor nests mimicking tooth germ and oral epithelium. The results clarify the homogeneity and heterogeneity of ameloblastoma cell lineage and differentiation.
Suitability of degraded areas as breeding habitats can be tested through assessment of nest predation rates. In this study we estimated nest success in relation to several potential predictors of nest survival in the Stripe-tailed Yellow-finch (Sicalis citrina) breeding in abandoned mining pits at Brasilia National Park. We monitored 73 nests during the 2007-breeding season. Predation was the main cause of nest failure (n = 48, 66%); while six nests were abandoned (8%) and 19 nests produced young (26%). Mayfield's daily survival rates and nest success were 0.94 and 23%, respectively. Our results from nest survival models on program MARK indicated that daily survival rates increase linearly towards the end of the breeding season and decrease as nests aged. None of the nest individual covariates we tested - nest height, nest size, nest substrate, and edge effect - were important predictors of nest survival; however, nests placed on the most common plant tended to have higher survival probabilities. Also, there was no observer effect on daily survival rates. Our study suggests that abandoned mining pits may be suitable alternative breeding habitats for Striped-tailed Yellow-finches since nest survival rates were similar to other studies in the central cerrado region.
The pairing of sister chromatids in interphase facilitates error-free homologous recombination (HR). Sister chromatids are held together by cohesin, one of three Structural Maintenance of Chromosomes (SMC) complexes. In mitosis, chromosome condensation is controlled by another SMC complex, condensin, and the type II topoisomerase (Top2). In prophase, cohesin is stripped from chromosome arms, but remains at centromeres until anaphase, whereupon it is removed via proteolytic cleavage. The third SMC complex, Smc5/6, is generally described as a regulator of HR-mediated DNA repair. However, cohesin and condensin are also required for DNA repair, and HR genes are not essential for cell viability, but the SMC complexes are. Smc5/6 null mutants die in mitosis, and in fission yeast, Smc5/6 hypomorphs show lethal mitoses following genotoxic stress, or when combined with a Top2 mutant, top2-191. We found these mitotic defects are due to retention of cohesin on chromosome arms. We also show that Top2 functions in the cohesin cycle, and accumulating data suggests this is not related to its decatenation activity. Thus the SMC complexes and Top2 functionally interact, and any DNA repair function ascribed to Smc5/6 is likely a reflection of a more fundamental role in the regulation of chromosome structure.
Quantification of mRNAs using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) by monitoring the product formation with the fluorescent dye SYBR Green I is being extensively used in neurosciences, developmental biology, and medical diagnostics. Most PCR data analysis procedures assume that the PCR efficiency for the amplicon of interest is constant or even, in the case of the comparative C(t) method, equal to 2. The latter method already leads to a 4-fold error when the PCR efficiencies vary over just a 0.04 range. PCR efficiencies of amplicons are usually calculated from standard curves based on either known RNA inputs or on dilution series of a reference cDNA sample. In this paper we show that the first approach can lead to PCR efficiencies that vary over a 0.2 range, whereas the second approach may be off by 0.26. Therefore, we propose linear regression on the Log(fluorescence) per cycle number data as an assumption-free method to calculate starting concentrations of mRNAs and PCR efficiencies for each sample. A computer program to perform this calculation is available on request (e-mail: bioinfo@amc.uva.nl; subject: LinRegPCR).
In the 9 years since the last World Health Organization (WHO) classification for head and neck tumors, a great deal has changed. In particular, human papillomavirus (HPV) has emerged as the major etiologic agent and patient prognostic marker for squamous cell carcinoma, most profoundly in the oropharynx. It also casts a long shadow over all of the rest of head and neck cancer given its biologic and prognostic implications. By contrast, little has changed regarding our knowledge of Epstein-Barr virus in head and neck cancers, except as it relates to HPV in nonkeratinizing-type nasopharyngeal carcinomas. This article discusses some of the major advances in our understanding of virus-related squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and suggests several specific concepts and terminology for incorporation into the next WHO classification.
In this study, three different methods (fruiting body collection, mycelial isolation, and 454 sequencing) were implemented to determine the diversity of wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes from dead Manchurian fir (Abies holophylla). The three methods recovered similar species richness (26 species from fruiting bodies, 32 species from mycelia, and 32 species from 454 sequencing), but Fisher's alpha, Shannon-Wiener, Simpson's diversity indices of fungal communities indicated fruiting body collection and mycelial isolation displayed higher diversity compared with 454 sequencing. In total, 75 wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes were detected. The most frequently observed species were Heterobasidion orientale (fruiting body collection), Bjerkandera adusta (mycelial isolation), and Trichaptum fusco-violaceum (454 sequencing). Only two species, Hymenochaete yasudae and Hypochnicium karstenii, were detected by all three methods. This result indicated that Manchurian fir harbors a diverse basidiomycetous fungal community and for complete estimation of fungal diversity, multiple methods should be used. Further studies are required to understand their ecology in the context of forest ecosystems.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the relationship between cross-sectional area of internal jugular veins and brain volumes in healthy individuals without neurologic disease. METHODS: A total of 193 healthy individuals without neurologic disease (63 male and 130 female; age > 20 to < 70 years) received magnetic resonance venography and structural brain magnetic resonance imaging at 3T. The internal jugular vein cross-sectional area was assessed at C2-C3, C4, C5-C6, and C7-T1. Normalized whole brain volume was assessed. Partial correlation analyses were used to determine associations. RESULTS: There was an inverse relationship between normalized whole brain volume and total internal jugular vein cross-sectional area (C7-T1: males r = -0.346, p = 0.029; females r = -0.301, p = 0.002). After age adjustment, association of normalized whole brain volume and normalized gray matter volume with internal jugular vein cross-sectional area became positive in males (normalized whole brain volume and right internal jugular vein cross-sectional area (C2-C3) changed from r = -0.163 to r = 0.384, p = 0.002), but not in the females. CONCLUSION: Sex differences exist in the relationship between brain volume and internal jugular vein cross-sectional area in healthy individuals without neurologic disease.
Saccharomyces and non-Saccharomyces represents a heterogeneous class in the grape/must/wine environments including several yeast genera (e.g., Saccharomyces, Hanseniaspora, Pichia, Candida, Metschnikowia, Kluyveromyces, Zygosaccharomyces, Torulaspora, Dekkera and Schizosaccharomyces) and species. Since, each species may differently contribute to the improvement/depreciation of wine qualities, it appears clear the reason why species belong to non-Saccharomyces are also considered a biotechnological resource in wine fermentation. Here, we briefly review the oenological significance of this specific part of microbiota associated with grapes/musts/wine. Moreover, the diversity of cultivable non-Saccharomyces genera and their contribute to typical wines fermentations will be discussed.
The small GTP-binding protein Ras is pivotal in transmitting growth and differentiation signals downstream of cell surface receptors. Many observations have indicated that Ras transmits signals from cell surface receptors into multiple pathways via direct interaction with different effectors in mammalian cells. We have identified a novel potential Ras effector or target named Nore1. Nore1 has no significant sequence similarity to known mammalian proteins and lacks an identifiable catalytic domain, but contains sequence motifs that predict DAG_PE binding and SH3 domain binding. We show that Nore1 directly interacts with Ras in vitro in a GTP-dependent manner, and the interaction requires an intact Ras effector domain. Nore1 becomes associated with Ras in situ following activation of epidermal growth factor receptor in COS-7 and in KB cells.
The merging of populations after an extended period of isolation and divergence is a common phenomenon, in natural settings as well as due to human interference. Individuals with such hybrid origins contain genomes that essentially form a mosaic of different histories and demographies. Pigs are an excellent model species to study hybridization because European and Asian wild boars diverged ~1.2 Mya, and pigs were domesticated independently in Europe and Asia. During the Industrial Revolution in England, pigs were imported from China to improve the local pigs. This study utilizes the latest genomics tools to identify the origin of haplotypes in European domesticated pigs that are descendant from Asian and European populations. Our results reveal fine-scale haplotype structure representing different ancient demographic events, as well as a mosaic composition of those distinct histories due to recently introgressed haplotypes in the pig genome. As a consequence, nucleotide diversity in the genome of European domesticated pigs is higher when at least one haplotype of Asian origin is present, and haplotype length correlates negatively with recombination frequency and nucleotide diversity. Another consequence is that the inference of past effective population size is influenced by the background of the haplotypes in an individual, but we demonstrate that by careful sorting based on the origin of haplotypes, both distinct demographic histories can be reconstructed. Future detailed mapping of the genomic distribution of variation will enable a targeted approach to increase genetic diversity of captive and wild populations, thus facilitating conservation efforts in the near future.
Brucella spp. cause disease in humans and livestock and are potential biowarfare agents. Defining the protective immune response is necessary to design vaccines. This has largely been done with mice, brucella-susceptible BALB/c and resistant C57BL strains. Since interferon-gamma is key to brucella resistance, contrary to expectations, we found that ex vivo splenocytes from naive BALB/c mice produced IL-12 and interferon-gamma in cultures with brucellae at levels comparable to those of splenocytes from the more resistant C57BL/10 mice. Moreover, both IL-12 and interferon-gamma were produced in the first week following infection of BALB/c mice. However, by the third week of infection we found decreased IL-12Rbeta2 expression by BABL/c splenocytes, corresponding to their inability to produce interferon-gamma in Brucella recall responses at this time as reported previously. Administering recombinant IL-12 to these mice ameliorated the interferon-gamma hiatus, resulted in a 1000-fold reduction in CFU during primary infection and increased survival following secondary challenge.
D-lactic acid and pyruvic acid are two important building block intermediates. Production of D-lactic acid and pyruvic acid from racemic lactic acid by biotransformation is economically interesting. Biocatalyst prepared from 9 g dry cell wt l(-1) of Pseudomonas stutzeri SDM could catalyze 45.00 g l(-1)DL-lactic acid into 25.23 g l(-1)D-lactic acid and 19.70 g l(-1) pyruvic acid in 10h. Using a simple ion exchange process, D-lactic acid and pyruvic acid were effectively separated from the biotransformation system. Co-production of d-lactic acid and pyruvic acid by enantioselective oxidation of racemic lactic acid is technically feasible.
The pituitaries of mice, hamsters, guinea pigs and rats were extracted with Tris-Cl buffer and the extracts were chromatographed on Concanavalin A (ConA)-Sepharose into unadsorbed ConA I and adsorbed ConA II fractions. The ConA I fraction was subjected to gel filtration on Sephadex G-100 and fractionated into an unretarded peak and several retarded peaks. The peak with a molecular weight of approximately 40,000 (designated ConAI Sephadex fraction II) was then subjected to ion exchange chromatography on CM-cellulose and fractionated into an unadsorbed CM I and an adsorbed CM II fraction. The ConA II fraction was fractionated by ion exchange chromatography on CM-cellulose into CM I and CM II fractions. The ConA II CM II fraction was the chromatographic fraction which exhibited the highest potency in stimulating testosterone production by isolated rat Leydig cells. Its activity was much higher than the corresponding ConA I Sephadex fraction II CM II fraction which differed chromatographically only by non-adsorption on ConA-Sepharose. The ConA II CM II fraction manifested cross reactivity in a rat luteinizing hormone (LH) radioimmunoassay. The guinea pig pituitary ConA II CM II fraction also cross-reacted in a rat thyroid stimulating hormone radioimmunoassay. The ConA II fractions of hamster and guinea pig pituitary extracts demonstrated follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) activity while the corresponding ConA I fractions did not. The results suggest that the ConA II/ConA II CM II fraction contained most of the FSH and LH activities present in the pituitary extract.
Cytochrome c oxidase contains two established proton-conducting structures, the D- and K-pathways. The role of the K-pathway appears to be to conduct the first two protons to be used in water formation, which are taken up on reduction of the oxidized enzyme. Previous computational work has suggested that Lys(I)-319 is neutral over a large pH range and in various redox states. We have constructed oxidase models in different redox states using quantum-chemically derived charge parameters for the redox metal centers. The protonation behaviour of titratable sites in the two-subunit enzyme was defined by continuum electrostatics. The calculations reported here show substantial protonation of Lys(I)-319 at neutral pH once the stable X-ray crystallographic water molecule found immediately next to it is treated explicitly. The immediate structure of the Lys(I)-319 environment is independent of redox state, but the pK(a) value of this residue changes with the redox state of the binuclear heme a3/Cu(B) site whenever that change is electrically uncompensated. Lys(I)-319 is also found to interact electrostatically with the conserved residue Glu(II)-62 in subunit II. These results are discussed in relation to the role of the K-pathway in oxidase function.
Gastrin is a hormone produced by G-cells in the normal gastric antrum. However, colorectal carcinoma cells may aberrantly produce gastrin and exhibit increased expression of cholecystokinin B (CCK-B)/gastrin receptors. Gastrin is trophic for the normal gastric oxyntic mucosa and exerts a growth-promoting action on gastrointestinal malignancy. Thus, gastrin may act as an autocrine/paracrine or endocrine factor in the initiation and progression of colorectal carcinoma. The molecular mechanisms involved have not been elucidated. Hypergastrinemia induced by Helicobacter pylori infection is associated with increased cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in gastric and colorectal tissues, suggesting the possibility that gastrin up-regulates COX-2 expression in these tissues; this has not been confirmed. We report here that gastrin significantly increases the expression of COX-2 mRNA and protein, the activity of the COX-2 promoter, and the release of prostaglandin E(2) from a rat intestinal epithelial cell line transfected with the CCK-B receptor. These actions were dependent upon the activation of multiple MAPK signal pathways, including ERK5 kinase; transactivation of the epidermal growth factor receptor; and the increased expression and activities of transcription factors ELK-1, activating transcription factor-2, c-Fos, c-Jun, activator protein-1, and myocyte enhancer factor-2. Thus, our findings identify the signaling pathways coupling the CCK-B receptor with up-regulation of COX-2 expression. This effect may contribute to this hormone-dependent gastrointestinal carcinogenesis, especially in the colon.
OBJECTIVE: To study the anti-platelet effect and influence of Radix Paeoniae Rubra and Radix Paeoniae Alba on rat's endogenous metabolites by animal experiment and UPLC-MS based metabolomic method. METHOD: After administration of 80% ethanol extracts of Radix Paeoniae Rubra and Radix Paeoniae Alba for 6 d, the serum samples were analyzed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography- mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS) and partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) to find out the potential biomarker. RESULT: Both of the extracts of Radix Paeoniae Rubra and Radix Paeoniae Alba have good effects of inhibition on platelet coacervation, and the effect of Radix Paeoniae Alba is better than that of Radix Paeoniae Rubra. Malic acid, alpha-acetone dicarboxylic acid, leukotrieneA4 (LTA4), prostaglandinE2 (PGE2) and prostaglandin F2alpha (PGF2alpha) are proved to be significant expressed biomarkers. CONCLUSION: Metabolomics is helpful for the further research of the mechanism of anti-platelet action of Radix Paeoniae Rubra and Radix Paeoniae Alba.
In the last decade treatment for colorectal cancer (CRC) has evolved with the addition of contemporary chemotherapy drugs and targeted therapies. Despite this progress, our drug armamentarium is by no means complete and modern molecular biology techniques have led to the identification of a number of 'druggable' targets. One of the most important current drug targets is the phosphatidyl-inositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway, which is frequently deregulated in patients with CRC. In vitro and in vivo data strongly support the clinical development of compounds affecting signal transduction via the PI3K pathway. In this review we outline the role of PI3K in the development and progression of CRC and discuss data from current and ongoing clinical trials targeting this pathway. In addition we make suggestions toward the optimization of future research in order to derive the maximum benefit for patients with CRC.
During low-flow manually-controlled anaesthesia (MCA) the anaesthetist needs constantly adjust end-tidal oxygen (EtO2) and anaesthetic concentrations (EtAA) to assure an adequate and safe anaesthesia. Recently introduced anaesthetic machines can automatically maintain those variables at target values, avoiding the burden on the anaesthetist. End-tidal-controlled anaesthesia (EtCA) and MCA provided by the same anaesthetic machine under the same fresh gas flow were compared. Eighty patients were prospectively observed: in MCA group (n = 40) target end-tidal sevoflurane (1%) and EtO2 concentrations (>/= 35%) were manually controlled by the anaesthetist. In EtCA group (n = 40) the same anaesthetic machine with an additional end-tidal control feature was used to reach the same targets, rendering automatic the achievement and maintenance of those targets. Anaesthetic machine characteristics, amount of consumed gases, oxygen and sevoflurane efficiencies, and the amount of interventions by the anaesthetist were recorded. In EtCA group EtAA was achieved later (145 s) than in MCA (71 s) and remained controlled thereafter. Even though the target expired gas fractions were achieved faster in MCA, manual adjustments were required throughout anaesthesia for both oxygen and sevoflurane. In MCA patients the number of manual adjustments to stabilize EtAA and EtO2 were 137 and 107, respectively; no adjustment was required in EtCA. Low-flow anaesthesia delivered with an anaesthetic machine able to automatically control EtAA and EtO2 provided the same clinical stability and avoided the continuous manual adjustment of delivered sevoflurane and oxygen concentrations. Hence, the anaesthetist could dedicate more time to the patient and operating room activities.
We examined the influence of the application of postural taping on the kinematics of the lumbo-pelvic-hip complex, electromyographic (EMG) activity of back extensor muscles, and the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) in the low back during patient transfer. In total, 19 male physical therapists with chronic low back pain performed patient transfers with and without the application of postural taping on the low back. The kinematics of the lumbo-pelvic-hip complex and EMG activity of the erector spinae were recorded using a synchronized 3-D motion capture system and surface EMG. RPE was measured using Borg's CR-10 scale. Differences in kinematic data, EMG activity, and RPE between the two conditions were analyzed using a paired t-test. Peak angle and range of motion (ROM) of lumbar flexion, EMG activity of the erector spinae, and RPE decreased significantly, while peak angle and ROM of pelvic anterior tilt and hip flexion increased significantly during patient transfer under the postural taping condition versus no taping (p<0.05). These findings suggest that postural taping can change back extensor muscle activity and RPE as well as the kinematics of the lumbo-pelvic-hip complex in physical therapists with chronic low back pain during patient transfer.
By far the most studied multidrug resistance protein is P-glycoprotein. Despite recent structural data, key questions about its function remain. P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is flexible and undergoes large conformational changes as part of its function and in this respect, details not only of the export cycle, but also the recognition stage are currently lacking. Given the flexibility, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations provide an ideal tool to examine this aspect in detail. We have performed MD simulations to examine the behaviour of P-gp. In agreement with previous reports, we found that P-gp undergoes large conformational changes which tended to result in the nucleotide-binding domains coming closer together. In all simulations, the approach of the NBDs was asymmetrical in agreement with previous observations for other ABC transporter proteins. To validate the simulations, we make extensive comparison to previous cross-linking data. Our results show very good agreement with the available data. We then went on to compare the influence of inhibitor compounds bound with simulations of a substrate (daunorubicin) bound. Our results suggest that inhibitors may work by keeping the NBDs apart, thus preventing ATP-hydrolysis. On the other hand, repeat simulations of daunorubicin (substrate) in one particular binding pose suggest that the approach of the NBDs is not impaired and that the structure would be still be competent to perform ATP hydrolysis, thus providing a model for inhibition or substrate transport. Finally we compare the latter to earlier QSAR data to provide a model for the first part of substrate transport within P-gp.
Morphogenesis requires coordination of cell surface activity and cytoskeletal architecture. During the initial stage of morphogenesis in Caenorhabditis elegans, the concerted movement of surface epithelial cells results in enclosure of the embryo by the epidermis. We report that Fer-related kinase-1 (FRK-1), an ortholog of the mammalian non-receptor tyrosine kinase Fer, is necessary for embryonic enclosure and morphogenesis in C. elegans. Expression of FRK-1 in epidermal cells is sufficient to rescue a chromosomal deficiency that removes the frk-1 locus, demonstrating its autonomous requirement in the epidermis. The essential function of FRK-1 is independent of its kinase domain, suggesting a non-enzymatic role in morphogenesis. Localization of FRK-1 to the plasma membrane requires beta-catenin, but not cadherin or alpha-catenin, and muscle-expressed beta-integrin is non-autonomously required for this localization; in the absence of these components FRK-1 becomes nuclear. Mouse FerT rescues the morphogenetic defects of frk-1 mutants and expression of FRK-1 in mammalian cells results in loss of adhesion, implying a conserved function for FRK-1/FerT in cell adhesion and morphogenesis. Thus, FRK-1 performs a kinase-independent function in differentiation and morphogenesis of the C. elegans epidermis during embryogenesis.
BACKGROUND: Conventionally, two-dimensional (2D) fast spin-echo (FSE) sequences have been widely used for clinical cartilage imaging as well as gradient (GRE) sequences. Recently, three-dimensional (3D) volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been introduced with one 3D volumetric scan, and this is replacing slice-by-slice 2D MR scans. PURPOSE: To evaluate the image quality and diagnostic performance of two 3D sequences for abnormalities of knee cartilage: fat-suppressed (FS) FSE-based 3D volume isotropic turbo spin-echo acquisition (VISTA) and GRE-based 3D T1 high-resolution isovolumetric examination (THRIVE). MATERIAL AND METHODS: The institutional review board approved the protocol of this retrospective review. This study enrolled 40 patients (41 knees) with arthroscopically confirmed abnormalities of cartilage. All patients underwent isovoxel 3D-VISTA and 3D-THRIVE MR sequences on 3T MRI. We assessed the cartilage grade on the two 3D sequences using arthroscopy as a gold standard. Inter-observer agreement for each technique was evaluated with the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Differences in the area under the curve (AUC) were compared between the 3D-THRIVE and 3D-VISTA. RESULTS: Although inter-observer agreement for both sequences was excellent, the inter-observer agreement for 3D-VISTA was higher than for 3D-THRIVE for cartilage grading in all regions of the knee. There was no significant difference in the diagnostic performance (P > 0.05) between the two sequences for detecting cartilage grade. CONCLUSION: FSE-based 3D-VISTA images had good diagnostic performance that was comparable to GRE-based 3D-THRIVE images in the evaluation of knee cartilage, and can be used in routine knee MR protocols for the evaluation of cartilage.
The tools currently available for genetic subtyping of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 are laborious or can be used only for the analysis of a limited number of samples and/or subtypes. We developed and evaluated a molecular biology-based method using subtype-specific oligonucleotide probes for env genotyping of subtypes A through G, CRF01_AE, and CRF02_AG. DNA enzyme immunoassay (DEIA) genotyping is based on nested PCR amplification of the 5' end of the env gene (proviral DNA), followed by subtype-specific hybridization and immunoenzymatic detection on microplates. DEIA genotyping was validated with a large number of samples (n = 128) collected in Europe (France; n = 47), West-Central Africa (Cameroon; n = 36), and West Africa (Senegal; n = 45). Three different formats, depending on the distribution of subtypes in the three countries, were developed. The results were compared with those obtained by sequencing of the V3-V5 region and phylogenetic analysis or an env heteroduplex mobility assay. Additional sequencing and phylogenetic analyses of the DEIA region (the first codon of the env coding sequence to the middle of conserved region C1 of gp120) were performed to investigate the reasons for discrepancies. Intense and highly specific reactions between the oligonucleotide probes and the corresponding samples were observed. Overall, correct identification was achieved for 107 of 128 samples (83.6%). One sample was not amplified, 10 (8%) were nontypeable (NT), and 10 (8%) were misidentified. Six of the 10 discordant samples were further investigated by phylogenetic analysis, which indicated that these samples corresponded to recombinants involving the env 5' end and the V3 and V5 regions of the two parental clades. Sequencing of NT samples showed numerous differences between sample and probe sequences, resulting in a lack of hybridization, and revealed the limitations of the selected probes in terms of specificity and sensitivity. We demonstrated the feasibility of DEIA genotyping: six subtypes plus the two most prevalent circulating recombinant forms were discriminated by using the 5' end of the env gene. This method can be adapted to the local situation by including only probes that correspond to the prevalent strains.
A review of the standards needs of the mitochondrial proteomics communities is presented based on the presentations and discussions at National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) workshop, Systems Biology Approaches to Health Care: Mitochondrial Proteomics, held on September 17-18, 2002. The mitochondrial proteomics areas addressed for standards needs are model systems, methods and data. This review outlines the challenges in the field, proposes standards efforts that the community would like to see pursued to meet those challenges, and is followed by a summary and NIST's planned efforts to address these standards requirements.
BACKGROUND: Therapeutic hypothermia for hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE) has been proved effective. Standard equipment is expensive, while ice packs used in low resource settings are labour intensive and associated with wider temperature fluctuations. OBJECTIVES: To assess the feasibility of using phase changing material (PCM) as an alternative method for providing therapeutic hypothermia. METHODS: We retrospectively analysed 41 babies with HIE who had been cooled with PCM (OM 32 or HS 29) to a target rectal temperature of 33-34 degrees C. Rectal temperature was continuously monitored and recorded every hour. If the rectal temperature was >33.8 degrees C, cool gel packs were applied, and if the temperature was <33.2 degrees C, the baby was covered with sheets and the warmer output turned on till the temperature stabilized at 33.5 degrees C. The unit's standard protocol for cooling was followed for monitoring and treatment. The outcome measures were stability and fluctuation of the rectal temperature and the need for interventions to maintain the target temperature. RESULTS: The mean (+/-SD) temperature during the cooling phase was 33.45 +/- 0.26 degrees C. Throughout the cooling phase, the target temperature range was maintained in 96.2% of the time. There was no temperature reading <32 degrees C. With HS 29, ice packs were not used in any baby, and the warmer was used for a median of 7 h (interquartile range 1.5-14). CONCLUSIONS: PCM provides a low cost and effective method to maintain therapeutic hypothermia. However, careful monitoring is required during induction and the rewarming phase to avoid hypothermia outside the therapeutic range.
An ability of the Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein LMP1 to enhance the survival of infected B cells through upregulation of the bcl-2 oncogene was first suggested by experiments involving gene transfection and the selection of stable LMP1+ clones (S. Henderson, M. Rowe, C. Gregory, F. Wang, E. Kieff, and A. Rickinson, Cell 65:1107-1115, 1991). However, it was not possible to ascertain whether Bcl-2 upregulation was a specific consequence of LMP1 expression or an artifact of the selection procedure whereby rare Bcl-2+ cells already present in the starting population might best be able to tolerate the potentially toxic effects of LMP1. We therefore reexamined this issue by using two different experimental approaches that allowed LMP1-induced effects to be monitored immediately following expression of the viral protein and in the absence of selective pressures; activation of the NF-kappa B transcription factor and upregulation of the cell adhesion molecule ICAM-1 were used as early indices of LMP1 function. In the first approach, stable clones of two B-cell lines carrying an LMP1 gene under the control of an inducible metallothionein promoter were induced to express LMP1 in all cells. Activation of NK-kappa B and upregulation of ICAM-1 occurred within 24 h and were followed at 48 to 72 h by upregulation of Bcl-2. In the second approach, we tested the generality of this phenomenon by transiently expressing LMP1 from a strong constitutively active promoter in a range of different cell types. All six B-cell lines tested showed NF-kappa B activation in response to LMP1 expression, and this was followed in five of six lines by expression of ICAM-1 and Bcl-2. In the same experiments, all three non-B-cell lines showed NF-kappa B activation and ICAM-1 upregulation but never any effect upon Bcl-2. We therefore conclude that Bcl-2 upregulation is part of the panoply of cellular changes induced by LMP1 but that the effect is cell type specific. Our data also suggest that whilst NF-kappa B may be an essential component of LMP1 signal transduction, other cell-specific factors may be required to effect some functions of the viral protein.
In some cell types, gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) is associated with tight junctions. The present study was performed to determine the roles of GJIC in regulation of the barrier function of tight junctions. Caco-2 human colonic cells were used as a monolayer model, and barrier function was monitored by measuring mannitol permeability and transepithelial electrical resistance (TER). The monolayers were chemically disrupted by treatment with oleic acid and taurocholic acid. Western blotting analyses were performed to evaluate the protein levels of connexins, which are components of gap junctional intercellular channels. Cx26 expression was detected in preconfluent Caco-2 cells, and its level increased gradually after the monolayer reached confluency. These results prompted us to examine whether overexpression of Cx26 affects barrier function. Monolayers of Caco-2 cells stably expressing Cx26 showed significantly lower mannitol permeability and higher TER than mock transfectants when the monolayers were chemically disrupted. The levels of claudin-4, an important component of tight junctions, were significantly increased in the stable Cx26 transfectant. These results suggest that Cx26-mediated GJIC may play a crucial role in enhancing the barrier function of Caco-2 cell monolayers.
Five diagnostic codominant nuclear DNA markers and a diagnostic mitochondrial DNA marker were used to survey weakfish (Cynoscion regalis) and sand seatrout (C. arenarius), with particular focus on heretofore uncharacterized juvenile populations along the Florida (FL) Atlantic coast. Geographic and reproductive ranges of weakfish and sand seatrout were shown to overlap on the Atlantic coast along north and central FL. An active bidirectional zone of introgressive hybridization exists between these taxa, centered in the St Johns River, FL. Strong patterns of Hardy-Weinberg, linkage, and cytonuclear disequilibrium and a bimodal hybrid index distribution were observed for juvenile cohorts in the zone center, coupled with narrow ( approximately 240 km) concordant clines. Parental forms had disparate habitat preferences; hybrid forms occurred predominantly in intermediate habitats. All genetic data were consistent with the hypothesis that the C. arenarius-C. regalis hybrid zone is maintained by a dynamic equilibrium between continued interspecific gene flow and one or more opposing forces. Cytonuclear analyses indicated that parental forms mate assortatively in the zone but that mate recognition was imperfect. Ethological mating dynamics are likely stabilized by some form of endogenous or exogenous postfertilization selection against hybrids such that parental taxa will likely continue to evolve independently.
BACKGROUND: Elevated levels of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) are associated with incident heart failure in individuals with or without chronic kidney disease. We aimed to investigate the association between serum FGF23 concentrations and disease severity and long-term outcome in patients with stable heart failure. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Serum levels of C-term FGF23 (Ct-FGF23) concentrations, inorganic phosphate (Pi ), parathormone (PTH) and 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) were measured in 208 patients with nonischaemic heart failure (age 48 +/- 15 years; 70% male; NYHA Class I 27.8%, NYHA Class II 43.4%, NYHA Class III/IV 28.8%; LV-EF 34 +/- 15%; eGFR >/=60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) in 86%). RESULTS: Median Ct-FGF23 levels were 18.2 RU/mL (7.5-40.8RU/mL). A dose-response relationship was found between median Ct-FGF23 levels and increasing NYHA class (I: 11.9 RU/mL, II: 15.8 RU/mL, III/IV: 38.8 RU/mL; P < 0.001). Ct-FGF23 correlated with NTproBNP (r = 0.307, P < 0.001), central venous pressure, mean pulmonary arterial pressure, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and inversely correlated with cardiac output after adjustment for renal function (eGFR) and Pi . LnCt-FGF23 was related with the combined endpoint of death or heart transplantation (hazard ratio 1.452 [1.029-2.048]; P = 0.034) independent of Pi , PTH, 25(OH)D, age and sex. CONCLUSION: The phosphatonin FGF23 is strongly associated with disease severity and long-term outcome in patients with nonischaemic heart failure and preserved renal function. Further studies are needed to evaluate the pathophysiologic role of FGF23 and its potential as a biomarker in heart failure.
The role of caspases in the regulation of apoptosis of neurons during development is well established. An emerging body of evidence indicates that caspases may also play significant roles which are nonapoptotic. We have demonstrated previously that the executor caspase-3 exhibited a unique pattern of spatiotemporal expression in the postnatal rat hippocampal subregions, and the activation of caspase-3 in different hippocampal neurons appeared to have distinct roles during postnatal development. In the present study, we examined the expressions of initiator caspases in the hippocampus, using immunofluorescent staining for caspase-8 and caspase-9, and Hoechst 33342 staining for nuclear chromatin to assess caspase-8 and -9 expression in the CA1, CA3, and the dentate gyrus (DG) on postnatal days (P) 0, P2, P4, P7, P14, P21, P28, P56. The results indicate that caspase-8 and caspase-9 were expressed in pyramidal neurons of CA1 and CA3 fields, and granular neurons of the DG during development. Caspase-8 was expressed in a general upward trend while caspase-9 showed a slight downward pattern, but still remained at high levels in the adult hippocampus. The expression profiles of caspases-8 and -9 are distinct from that of the apoptotic cells. These data indicate that caspase-8 may be involved not only in the classical apoptotic function, but also in the cell death of necrosis, and in response to different insults and other nonapoptotic functions. Caspase-9 plays a role in apoptosis during postnatal development, but it may have other functions as well.
OBJECTIVE: This study identified the journals with the highest yield of clinical obesity research articles and surveyed the scatter of such studies across journals. The study exemplifies an approach to establish a journal collection that is likely to contain most new knowledge about a field. DESIGN AND METHODS: All original studies that were cited in 40 systematic reviews about obesity topics ('included studies') were compiled and journal titles in which they were published were extracted. The journals were ranked by the number of included studies. The highest-yielding journals for clinical obesity and the scatter across journal titles were determined. A subset of these journals was created in MEDLINE (PubMed) to test search recall and precision for high-quality studies of obesity treatment (that is, articles that pass predetermined methodology criteria, including random allocation of participants to comparison groups, assessment of clinical outcomes, and at least 80% follow-up). RESULTS: Articles in 252 journals were cited in the systematic reviews. The three highest-yielding journals specialized in obesity, but they published only 19.2% of the research, leaving 80.8% scattered across 249 non-obesity journals. The MEDLINE journal subset comprised 241 journals (11 journals were not indexed in MEDLINE) and included 82% of the clinical obesity research articles retrieved by a search for high-quality treatment studies ('recall' of 82%). Of the articles retrieved, 11% were about clinical obesity care ('precision' of 11%), compared with precision of 6% for obesity treatment studies in the full MEDLINE database. CONCLUSION: Obesity journals captured only a small proportion of the literature on clinical obesity care. Those wishing to keep up in this field will need to develop more inclusive strategies than reading these specialty journals. A journal subset based on these findings may be useful when searching large electronic databases to increase search precision.
Class B GPCRs of the secretin family are important drug targets in many human diseases including diabetes, neurodegeneration, cardiovascular disease and psychiatric disorders. X-ray crystal structures for the glucagon receptor and corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 have now been published. In this review, we analyse the new structures and how they compare with each other and with Class A and F receptors. We also consider the differences in druggability and possible similarity in the activation mechanisms. Finally, we discuss the potential for the design of small-molecule modulators for these important targets in drug discovery. This new structural insight allows, for the first time, structure-based drug design methods to be applied to Class B GPCRs.
The trace reactions of neurons in the medial geniculate body during the action of various auditory signals were investigated in anesthetized cats. Using the traditional peristimulus histogram (PSTH) method to analyze the impulse activity, trace reactions were found in some neurons that possessed a definite time structure with a varying degree of periodicity. Prolonged, diffuse changes in the level of activity were demonstrated in another group of neurons. The trace reactions of the second group of neurons were evaluated by averaging for a multitude of responses the individual PSTHs obtained for each response using the procedure of eliminating time shifts. Elimination in this way of the physiological variation in the time of reaction onset made it possible to establish the presence of a time structure in the trace reactions of a number of neurons in the second group.
When energy is needed, white adipose tissue (WAT) provides fatty acids (FAs) for use in peripheral tissues via stimulation of fat cell lipolysis. FAs have been postulated to play a critical role in the development of obesity-induced insulin resistance, a major risk factor for diabetes and cardiovascular disease. However, whether and how chronic inhibition of fat mobilization from WAT modulates insulin sensitivity remains elusive. Hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) participates in the breakdown of WAT triacylglycerol into FAs. HSL haploinsufficiency and treatment with a HSL inhibitor resulted in improvement of insulin tolerance without impact on body weight, fat mass, and WAT inflammation in high-fat-diet-fed mice. In vivo palmitate turnover analysis revealed that blunted lipolytic capacity is associated with diminution in FA uptake and storage in peripheral tissues of obese HSL haploinsufficient mice. The reduction in FA turnover was accompanied by an improvement of glucose metabolism with a shift in respiratory quotient, increase of glucose uptake in WAT and skeletal muscle, and enhancement of de novo lipogenesis and insulin signalling in liver. In human adipocytes, HSL gene silencing led to improved insulin-stimulated glucose uptake, resulting in increased de novo lipogenesis and activation of cognate gene expression. In clinical studies, WAT lipolytic rate was positively and negatively correlated with indexes of insulin resistance and WAT de novo lipogenesis gene expression, respectively. In obese individuals, chronic inhibition of lipolysis resulted in induction of WAT de novo lipogenesis gene expression. Thus, reduction in WAT lipolysis reshapes FA fluxes without increase of fat mass and improves glucose metabolism through cell-autonomous induction of fat cell de novo lipogenesis, which contributes to improved insulin sensitivity.
A series of carbosilane dendrimers uniformly functionalized with sialyl lactose moieties (Neu5Ac alpha2-->3Gal beta1-->4Glc) was systematically synthesized, and biological evaluations for anti-influenza virus activity using the glycodendrimers were performed. The results suggested that the glycodendrimers had unique biological activities depending on the form of their core frame, and Dumbbell(1)6-amide type glycodendrimer 7 showed particularly strong inhibitory activities against human influenza viruses [A/PR/8/34 (H1N1) and A/Aichi/2/68 (H3N2)]. The results suggested that the structure-activity relationship (SAR) on the glycolibrary against various influenza viruses was observed, and dumbbell-shaped dendrimers as supporting carbohydrate moieties were found to be the most suitable core scaffolds in this study.
AIMS: To compare cell proliferation markers, minichromosome maintenance protein 2 (MCM2) and Ki67, in minimally invasive follicular carcinoma (MIFC) and follicular adenoma (FA) of the thyroid and among MIFCs with different diagnostic criteria. METHODS AND RESULTS: Twenty-two MIFCs and 20 FAs were immunohistochemically stained for MCM2 and Ki67. The MIFCs were subdivided into six Group 1 tumours with both capsular and vascular invasions, seven Group 2 tumours with vascular invasion only and nine Group 3 tumours with capsular invasion only. The MCM2 and Ki67 indices were calculated, counting more than 1000 tumour cells in the most frequently positive areas. In total and Groups 1-3 MIFCs and in FAs, the average MCM2 index was 26.7 +/- 11.0, 28.4 +/- 8.6, 26.3 +/- 14.8, 25.9 +/- 8.4 and 10.7 +/- 4.5, respectively, whereas the average Ki67 index was 2.07 +/- 1.65, 1.93 +/- 2.02, 2.49 +/-1.38, 1.84 +/- 1.5 and 1.78 +/- 0.92, respectively. There was a significant difference in the MCM2 index, but not in the Ki67 index, between each category of MIFCs and FA (P < 0.01). However, neither the MCM2 index nor the Ki67 index showed a statistically significant difference among the subgroups of MIFC. CONCLUSIONS: MCM2, but not Ki67, is a helpful marker for differentiating MIFC from FA. The tumour cell proliferative activity supports the histological criteria based on diagnosing MIFC by either capsular or vascular invasion only.
Are rheumatic musculoskeletal diseases (RMSD) given their due recognition by the medical fraternity and policy makers in India today? Focus on lifestyle diseases has taken away the importance of morbidity caused by musculoskeletal pain, which is one of the commonest ailments in the community. Poor awareness in general regarding the upcoming field of rheumatology and lack of proper data regarding these diseases in the country are the primary causes for this debacle. The epidemiology of RMSD in the country is fast changing, especially in the wake of viral epidemics, which leave their mark for months and years together. This view point emphasizes the burden of RMSD by highlighting the findings of two Community Oriented Programme for the Control of Rheumatic Diseases studies conducted to study the prevalence of RMSD in rural communities in the southern state of Kerala, which inadvertently captured the burden of RMSD following Chikungunya viral epidemics in the regions. Both the studies have reported a high prevalence of RMSD following the epidemics. The value of including RMSD in a national programme to combat the morbidity caused and to improve the health related quality of life of patients has been stressed upon, in the background of altering epidemiology of these disorders in the country.
Nanotechnology is an emerging paradigm for creating functional nanoscale materials for various biomedical applications. In this study, a new nanotechnology-based drug delivery method was developed using gold nanoparticles (GNPs) as a delivery vehicle to reduce adverse drug side effects. Fludarabine Phosphate is a commercial chemotherapy drug used in cancer treatment, and has ability to kill various cancer cells. KG-1 cell, a type of acute cancer leukemia cell, was selected as a proof-of-concept target in this study. Due to the small size of GNPs, they can help Fludarabine Phosphate enter cancer cells more efficiently and better interfere with DNA synthesis in the cancer cells. To enhance targeting ability, folic acid molecules were also covalently linked to GNPs, resulting in GNP-Fludarabine-folic acid (GNP-F/f). Compared to treatments with GNP-F or drugs on its own (Fludarabine Phosphate), the GNP-F/f achieves much improved cell-killing effects. The UV-Vis spectra results also revealed that the drugs had successfully bonded covalently to the GNPs. The higher cell-killing efficiency of GNP-F/f compared with GNP-Fludarabine (GNP-F) or drugs on their own further validates the effectiveness of both the vectors (GNPs) and folic acid in enhancing the drug delivery to the cancer cells. The MTT viability tests showed that the GNPs had no cytotoxicity.
Cytotoxicity and the mechanisms of cell death induced by xanthohumol (XN) were compared in normal and cancerous human cells as the differences may be relevant for the potential use of XN in cancer therapy. The cancer cells seemed to be more susceptible to the cytotoxicity of XN than normal cells, but a significant difference was observed only in astrocytic cells. XN induced a higher rate of apoptosis in glioblastoma cells than in normal astrocytes, which was associated with activation of p53 and an elevated Bax/Bcl-2 ratio in glioblastoma cells, indicating an intrinsic caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway. In contrast, a reduced Bax/Bcl-2 ratio was observed in normal human astrocytes. This was also associated with higher expression of the cell cycle inhibitor, p21, in glioblastoma cells than in normal astrocytes. In addition, at a lower, non-cytotoxic concentration, XN partially inhibited the invasiveness of glioblastoma cells. Due to the selective sensitivity of astrocytic cells to XN, this compound should be studied further as a candidate for adjuvant therapy in the treatment of glioma.
Lemierre syndrome, which can result from a recent oropharyngeal or odontogenic infection, is characterized by clinical or radiographic signs of thrombosis of the internal jugular vein, distant infected emboli and the presence of anaerobic pathogens, usually Fusobacterium necrophorum. The septic emboli resulting from the infected thrombophlebitis of the internal jugular vein give the syndrome its constellation of central nervous system, pulmonary and many other manifestations including septic shock. This condition was so rare that, historically, it became known as the "forgotten disease," but an increasing frequency of reports indicates that Lemierre syndrome may not be so uncommon.
As a foundation for studies of human cognitive aging, it is important to know the stability of individual differences in cognitive ability across the life course. Few studies of cognitive ability have tested the same individuals in youth and old age. We examined the stability and concurrent and predictive validity of individual differences in the same intelligence test administered to the same individuals (the Lothian Birth Cohort of 1921, N = 106) at ages 11 and 90 years. The correlation of Moray House Test scores between age 11 and age 90 was .54 (.67 when corrected for range restriction). This is a valuable foundation for estimating the extent to which cognitive-ability differences in very old age are accounted for by the lifelong stable trait and by the causes of cognitive change across the life course. Moray House Test scores showed strong concurrent and predictive validity with "gold standard" cognitive tests at ages 11 and 90.
Bilateral vocal cord paralysis is a serious illness requiring emergency intervention to resolve the potentially life-threatening respiratory distress. Several surgical procedures were proposed to help improve the airway and to eliminate the tracheostoma in those patients with permanent paralysis. All the procedures have their own advantages and disadvantages. We conducted a retrospective study of 30 patients affected by bilateral vocal cord paralysis following total thyroidectomy. All the patients underwent total thyroidectomy for benign thyroid pathology. In 26 patients (86.6%), cord paralysis occurred during the perioperative stage; and in the remaining 4 cases (13.3%), it occurred within the following 6 months. We treated all these bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis patients with arytenoidectomy alone in 5 patients and arytenoidectomy with concomitant true and false posterior cordectomy in the remaining 25 patients. Twenty-four of the 25 patients who underwent the combined procedures (96%) reported subjective respiratory improvement and were decannulated within 60 days, being able to return to their normal daily activities. This study demonstrates that arytenoidectomy associated with posterior cordectomy is a satisfactory surgical treatment of bilateral vocal cord paralysis because it leads to a considerable and stable enlargement of the breathing space.
Poxviral infection was identified in a crimson rosella presented to the Australian Wildlife Health Centre (Victoria) in 2002, and from a second crimson rosella in 2008. Both cases were characterized by proliferative lesions on non-feathered skin. Routine histopathology identified intra-lesional epidermal changes consistent with those caused by poxvirus. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of poxvirus in inclusions in the first case, and genetic analysis of DNA extracted from both cases found an identical viral genome that differs from all other known poxviruses. We conclude that this infection in crimson rosellas is caused by a previously unrecognized avian poxvirus endemic to this region of Australia, and with low virulence.
In the long-germ insect Drosophila melanogaster dorsoventral polarity is induced by localized Toll-receptor activation which leads to the formation of a nuclear gradient of the rel/ NF-kappaB protein Dorsal. Peak levels of nuclear Dorsal are found in a ventral stripe spanning the entire length of the blastoderm embryo allowing all segments and their dorsoventral subdivisions to be synchronously specified before gastrulation. We show that a nuclear Dorsal protein gradient of similar anteroposterior extension exists in the short-germ beetle, Tribolium castaneum, which forms most segments from a posterior growth zone after gastrulation. In contrast to Drosophila, (i) nuclear accumulation is first uniform and then becomes progressively restricted to a narrow ventral stripe, (ii) gradient refinement is accompanied by changes in the zygotic expression of the Tribolium Toll-receptor suggesting feedback regulation and, (iii) the gradient only transiently overlaps with the expression of a potential target, the Tribolium twist homolog, and does not repress Tribolium decapentaplegic. No nuclear Dorsal is seen in the cells of the growth zone of Tribolium embryos, indicating that here dorsoventral patterning occurs by a different mechanism. However, Dorsal is up-regulated and transiently forms a nuclear gradient in the serosa, a protective extraembryonic cell layer ultimately covering the whole embryo.
Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection affects approximately 170 million people and is a major global health problem because infected individuals can develop liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite significant improvements in antiviral drugs, only around 50% of treated patients with genotype 1 and 4 demonstrate HCV clearance. Unfortunately, an anti-HCV vaccine is still not available. To progress treatment of HCV, it is necessary to understand the mechanism(s) by which HCV infects hepatocytes, and how the host immune response prevents the spread of the virus. Because HCV infects only humans and chimpanzees, it is difficult to evaluate immune response mechanisms, and the effects of chemicals and new technologies on these response mechanisms. These difficulties underline the importance of establishing a small HCV-infected animal model. This review focuses on the progress made in recent years towards the development of an experimental mouse model for HCV.
Galactose-rich oligosaccharides/oligomers (oligo-RG I) were produced by the enzymatic treatment of potato galactan-rich rhamnogalacturonan I (RG I) with endo-beta-1,4-galactanase and Depol 670L multi-enzymatic preparation. The digestibility study revealed that 81.6 and 79.3% of RG I and its corresponding oligomers remained unhydrolyzed, respectively. The prebiotic properties of RG I and its hydrolysates were investigated using a continuous culture system inoculated with immobilized fecal microbiota. Both RG I and oligo-RG I have stimulated the growth of Bifidobacterium spp. and Lactobacillus spp., with oligo-RG I hydrolysates being more selectively fermented by these beneficial bacteria. Furthermore, none of RG I nor its hydrolysates increased the populations of Bacteroidetes and Clostridium leptum. Total amounts of short chain fatty acids, generated upon the fermentation of oligo-RG I, were higher than those obtained with its parent RG I and the positive control (fructooligosaccharides). The overall study contributes to the understandings of the prebiotic properties of potato RG I and its corresponding oligosaccharides/oligomers.
For over a century, researchers have observed similar neurodegenerative hallmarks in brains of people affected by rare early-onset lysosomal storage diseases and late-onset neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Increasing evidence suggests these apparently disparate diseases share a common underlying feature, namely, a dysfunctional clearance of cellular cargo through the secretory-endosomal-autophagic-lysosomal-exocytic (SEALE) network. By providing examples of rare and common neurodegenerative diseases known to have pathologically altered cargo flux through the SEALE network, we explore the unifying hypothesis that impaired catabolism or exocytosis of SEALE cargo, places a burden of stress on neurons that initiates pathogenesis. We also describe how a growing understanding of genetic, epigenetic and age-related modifications of the SEALE network, has inspired a number of novel disease-modifying therapeutic approaches aimed at alleviating SEALE storage and providing therapeutic benefit to people affected by these devastating diseases across the age spectrum.
Bacterial colonisation of prosthetic material can lead to clinical infection or implant failure, or both, often requiring removal of the device. Adherence of Staphylococcus aureus to bioprosthetic materials is mediated by adhesins belonging to the MSCRAMM (microbial surface components recognising adhesive matrix molecules) family of microbial cell surface proteins. The objective of this study was to compare the virulence of a mutant strain of S. aureus Newman that possesses all three fibrinogen-, fibronectin- and collagen-binding MSCRAMMs (MSCRAMM-positive strain) with that of a mutant strain that lacks all three types of MSCRAMMs (MSCRAMM-negative strain) in a rabbit model of orthopaedic device-related infection. After a hole was drilled into the knee joint of each animal, a group of 10 rabbits was inoculated with the MSCRAMM-positive strain and another group of 10 rabbits received the MSCRAMM-negative strain. A stainless steel screw was then placed into the drilled hole. Two weeks later, the rabbits were killed and serum samples, bone tissue and implants were harvested for bacteriological and histopathological evaluation. No significant difference in infection rates was demonstrated between the two groups. The ability to delineate the role of S. aureus surface adhesins in causing orthopaedic device-related infection could be model-dependent.
The Wilms tumor gene 1 (WT1) has been reported in normal tissues and many neoplasms of the female genital tract. This review discusses WT1 expression in the female genital tract and its potential utility in the differential diagnosis of neoplasms that occur at this location. WT1 is of value in the differential diagnosis of synchronous serous carcinomas arising in the ovary/fallopian tube/peritoneum and endometrium, as strong WT1 positivity in both tumors points toward an extrauterine origin. In addition, WT1 can be used to distinguish sex cord stromal tumors (WT1 positive) from endometrioid carcinomas (OECs). WT1 expression is not helpful in the differential diagnosis of ovarian serous carcinomas (OSCs) and transitional carcinomas, as both are typically positive and has limited value in the distinction of serous tumors arising in the ovary/fallopian tube/peritoneum from mesotheliomas. WT1 is also not helpful to differentiate small cell carcinoma of hypercalcemic type from juvenile granulosa cell tumor, a common diagnostic problem. Intra-abdominal desmoplastic round cell tumor reacts to WT1 (C-terminal) in contrast to all other tumors discussed which helps to separate this rare tumor from most other small round cell tumors that may involve, primarily or secondarily, the ovary with the exception of small cell carcinoma of hypercalcemic type that typically reacts with the N-terminal of WT1.
KEY MESSAGE: We isolated an MYB-like gene from Korla fragrant pear using differential display RT-PCR. Expression of this gene in flowers appears to be correlated with calyx persistence. Korla fragrant pear (Pyrus brestschneideri Rehd) is an economically important pear cultivar in China. A persistent calyx results in the deformation of the fruit. We used differential display RT-PCR to obtain 42 cDNA fragments from Korla fragrant pear flowers. Alignments of nucleotide and amino acid sequences suggested that two fragments (kfp1and kfp4) were related to calyx persistence. The fragments were 78% homologous with Malus x domestica SPL transcription factor (SPL3) and 83% homologous with Malus x domestica MYB transcription factor (MYB12). The complete cDNA sequence of kfpMYB was determined to clarify the role of MYB in calyx persistence. kfpMYB contained a 116 bp 5'-UTR, a 1122 bp open reading frame encoding 374 amino acids, and a 319 bp 3'-UTR. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the cDNA in Korla fragrant pear were highly homologous with those of MYB transcription factors in other plant species, suggesting that the sequence is a MYB transcription factor gene. The abundance of kfpMYB mRNA varied significantly between the second and fourth flowers on the branch. Furthermore, kfpMYB expression changed significantly during anthesis and was significantly higher in Jinfeng pear (persistent calyx) and Korla fragrant pear than in Yali pear (deciduous calyx). Expression of kfpMYB was significantly reduced by naphthalene (NAA), abscisic acid (ABA), PBO, and paclobutrazol (PP333). Uniconazole, ethylene (ETH), and gibberellic acid (GA3) had no signicant effect on kfpMYB expression. In conclusion, the expression of kfpMYB appears to be correlated with calyx persistence in Korla fragrant pear.
Approximately 25% of eukaryotic proteins possessing homology to at least two transmembrane domains are predicted to be embedded in biological membranes. Nevertheless, this group of proteins is not usually well represented in proteome-wide experiments due to their refractory nature. Here we present a quantitative mass spectrometry-based comparison of membrane protein expression in cerebellar granule neurons grown in primary culture that were isolated from wild-type mice and mice lacking the cellular prion protein. This protein is a cell-surface glycoprotein that is mainly expressed in the central nervous system and is involved in several neurodegenerative disorders, though its physiological role is unclear. We used a low specificity enzyme alpha-chymotrypsin to digest membrane proteins preparations that had been separated by SDS-PAGE. The resulting peptides were labeled with tandem mass tags and analyzed by MS. The differentially expressed proteins identified using this approach were further analyzed by multiple reaction monitoring to confirm the expression level changes.
It is believed that wildlife and livestock can coexist in semiarid savanna rangelands. However, this coexistence is threatened by intense competition for scarce, but nutritionally vital, forage resources. Specifically, there is evidence that grazing livestock seasonally compete for protein-rich forbs (non-grasses) with browsing and mixed-feeding wildlife. While this has been attributed to protein needs, there are no experimental tests of whether grazers in such a context alter their diet selection when supplemented with protein. We compared forage selection between cattle supplemented with protein (cotton seedcake) and those not supplemented during dry and wet periods, in a semiarid African savanna rangeland where they have been demonstrated to compete with wildlife for forage. We further evaluated whether such dietary alteration affected the overall biting and movement behavior, nutrition, and performance of cattle, by comparing bite and step rates, diet quality (crude protein and digestible organic matter), forage intake, and live mass change between these treatment groups. During the dry period, relative consumption of forbs was 76% lower in supplemented cattle than in non-supplemented cattle. Notably, supplemented cattle significantly avoided forbs relative to their abundance in the environment, while non-supplemented cattle over-sampled this herbage type. Conversely, selection and relative use of Brachiaria lachnantha, the most abundant grass species, and Bothriochloa insculpta, a grass species otherwise avoided, increased following protein supplementation. These patterns were similar but nonsignificant during the wet period. Bite and step rates, diet quality, forage intake, and performance were not significantly affected by protein supplementation in either period. Our study shows that foraging cattle partially trade off protein-rich forbs for protein-poor grasses when supplemented with protein, without suffering detrimental behavioral, nutritional, or performance consequences. These results broaden our understanding of the role of non-grasses in the diets of "grazers" and suggest protein supplementation as a potential tool in managing coexistence between grazing livestock and browsing (forb-consuming) wildlife.
SINEs, short interspersed repeated DNA elements, undergo amplification through retroposition and subsequent integration into a new location in the genome. Each new SINE insertion will be located in a new chromosomal environment, with different flanking sequences. Modulation of transcription by different flanking sequences may play an important role in determining which SINE elements are preferentially active in a genome. We evaluated the ability of upstream flanking sequences to regulate the transcription of three different SINEs (Alu, B2 and ID) by constructing chimeric constructs with known 5' flanking sequences of RNA polymerase III-transcribed genes. Upstream sequences from the 7SL RNA gene, U6 RNA gene, vault RNA gene, and BC1 gene increase transcription of Alu, B2 and BC1 in transient transfections of NIH3T3, HeLa, Neuro2a and C6 glioma cell lines. The 7SL sequence proved most efficient in increasing SINE transcription. The 7SL upstream fused to the BC1 RNA gene (an ID element) was used to create a transgenic mouse line. In contrast to the tissue-specific endogenous BC1 transcription, BC1 transgene transcripts were detected in all tissues tested. However, expression was much higher in those tissues that express the endogenous gene, demonstrating both transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation. The BC1 RNA was detected in a similar ribonucleoprotein complex in the different tissues.
In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, meiosis and spore formation as well as mating are controlled by mating-type genes. Diploids heterozygous for mating type (aalpha) can sporulate but cannot mate; homozygous aa and alpha-alpha diploids can mate, but cannot sporulate. From an alpha-alpha diploid parental strain, we have isolated mutants which have gained the ability to sporulate. Those mutants which continue to mate as alpha-alpha cells have been designated CSP (control of sporulation). Upon sporulation, CSP mutants yield asci containing 4alpha spores. The mutant gene which allows alpha-alpha cells to sporulate is unlinked to the mating-type locus and also acts to permit sporulation in aa diploid cells. Segregation data from crosses between mutant alpha-alpha and wild-type aa diploids and vice versa indicate (for all but one mutant) that the mutation which allows constitutive sporulation (CSP) is dominant over the wild-type allele. Some of the CSP mutants are temperature-sensitive, sporulating at 32 degrees, but not at 23 degrees. In addition to CSP mutants, our mutagenesis and screening procedure led to the isolation of mutants which sporulate by virtue of a change in the mating-type locus itself, resulting in loss of ability to mate.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by the abnormal expansion of CAG repeats in the huntingtin gene (HTT). The adjacent proline-rich region, which also has a CCG polymorphism among people of different races, may also affect the pathogenesis of HD. To study the effect of this polymorphism on patients with HD in mainland China, 53 HD mutant alleles were examined. The results showed that 54.72% of the HD mutant alleles had 10-repeat alleles, and the remaining 45.28% had 7-repeat alleles. Moreover, comparison of the clinical features between the two groups revealed no significant difference. We also investigated its effect on the aggregates in vitro. No significant difference was detected when the morphology and size of the aggregates with the two polymorphisms was compared in cells. Given these findings, it was quite reasonable to suppose that the CCG polymorphism may not influence the pathogenesis of patients with HD in mainland China.
Triclosan (2,4,4'-trichloro-2'-hydroxydiphenyl ether) is an antimicrobial agent used in hygiene products, plastics and kitchenware, and for treating methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) outbreaks. S. aureus strains with low-level resistance to triclosan have emerged. It has been claimed that strains with decreased susceptibility to biocides may also be less susceptible to antibiotics. We tested the susceptibility of S. aureus clinical isolates to triclosan and several antibiotics. Triclosan MICs ranged between 0.025 and 1 mg/L. Some, but not all, strains were resistant to several antibiotics and showed low-level triclosan resistance. S. aureus mutants with enhanced resistance to triclosan (< or =1 mg/L) were isolated. In several cases this resistance was stably inherited in the absence of triclosan. These mutants were not more resistant than the parent strain to several antibiotics. Changes in triclosan MICs associated with the acquisition of a plasmid encoding mupirocin resistance were not observed, suggesting that the triclosan/mupirocin co-resistance seen in a previous study was not the result of a single resistance gene or separate genes on the same plasmid. The continuous exposure of a triclosan-sensitive S. aureus strain to sub-MIC concentrations of triclosan for 1 month did not result in decreased susceptibility to triclosan or to several antibiotics tested. Triclosan-induced potassium leakage and bactericidal effects on a triclosan-sensitive strain, a resistant strain and a strain selected for increased resistance were compared with those of non-growing organisms, exponentially growing organisms and organisms in the stationary phase. No significant differences between the strains were observed under these conditions despite their different MICs. Biocides have multiple target sites and so MICs often do not correlate with bactericidal activities. The ability of S. aureus to develop resistance to triclosan and the current view that triclosan may have a specific target in Escherichia coli, namely enoyl reductase, underline the need for more research on the mechanisms of action and resistance.
The economic burden of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) came into sharp focus when the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) denied coverage (later reversed) of sunitinib for metastatic RCC. In the first of two articles that provide updated reviews and analyses of the economic burden of RCC, we conducted an updated literature review of RCC-related economic studies. We performed a literature search of PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library for English-language studies published from 1 January 2000 to 15 June 2010. We also performed a separate search for related studies in the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) reports published by the National Institute for Health Research HTA Programme in the UK. Identified articles were classified into three categories: cost studies, cost-effectiveness/cost-utility studies and cost-of-illness studies. All cost estimates were normalized to $US, year 2009 values. We identified 20 articles, including six cost, six cost-utility and eight cost-of-illness studies. In general, the studies found new surgical techniques, such as laparoscopic partial nephrectomy, to be potentially cost saving (in the range of $US181-5842). Targeted agents, such as bevacizumab, sunitinib, sorafenib and temsirolimus, were associated with higher lifetime costs ($US8537-72 254) and were not always considered to be cost effective by authors of the cost-effectiveness studies included in this review (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER]: $US49 959-272 418 per QALY). The literature reported annual estimates of the US economic burden of RCC between $US0.60 billion and $US5.19 billion, with per-patient costs of $US16 488-43 805. RCC is associated with substantial economic burden, although the estimates are wide ranging. Comparisons of the estimates across studies were hindered by variations in study methodology, choice of database and the associated timeframe, and limitations inherent to each database. More research is needed to assess the quality of the economic studies of RCC and to understand why the estimated costs differ across studies.
Phytases catalyse the hydrolytic degradation of phytic acid and its salts and are added to monogastric animal feed to ameliorate the negative environmental and nutritional consequences of dietary phytate. Screening of 58 microbial strains identified a phytase produced by Rhizopus oligosporus ATCC 22959 that displayed physicochemical characteristics likely to render it of potential industrial interest. The 124 kDa enzyme was purified to homogeneity by anion exchange chromatography, gel filtration and chromatofocusing. The monomeric glycosylated enzyme (30.5% total carbohydrate) displayed maximum activity at 65 degrees C and pH 5.0. It displayed a Km of 10.4 microM, a Vmax of 1.32 nmols(-1) and a Kcat of 51 s(-1). It is acid tolerant, retaining full activity after incubation at pH 2.0 for 6h. HPLC analysis indicated the enzyme's ability to almost completely degrade phytate. Substrate specificity studies showed its ability to dephosphorylate several additional phosphorylated molecules. Activity was unaffected or moderately stimulated by a range of metal ions with only Ca2+ exerting a modest (13%) inhibitory effect. The enzyme is significantly more thermostable at 80 degrees C and retains a significantly greater proportion of maximal activity at physiological temperatures than do two commercial phytases tested for comparative purposes. This may render it of industrial interest.
Differentiation-inducing factor-3 (DIF-3), found in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, and its derivatives, such as butoxy-DIF-3 (Bu-DIF-3), are potent anti-tumor agents. To investigate the activity of DIF-like molecules in tumor cells, we recently synthesized a green fluorescent DIF-3 derivative, BODIPY-DIF-3G, and analyzed its bioactivity and cellular localization. In this study, we synthesized a red (orange) fluorescent DIF-3 derivative, BODIPY-DIF-3R, and compared the cellular localization and bioactivities of the two BODIPY-DIF-3s in HeLa human cervical cancer cells. Both fluorescent compounds penetrated the extracellular membrane within 0.5&emsp14;h and localized mainly to the mitochondria. In formalin-fixed cells, the two BODIPY-DIF-3s also localized to the mitochondria, indicating that the BODIPY-DIF-3s were incorporated into mitochondria independently of the mitochondrial membrane potential. After treatment for 3 days, BODIPY-DIF-3G, but not BODIPY-DIF-3R, induced mitochondrial swelling and suppressed cell proliferation. Interestingly, the swollen mitochondria were stainable with BODIPY-DIF-3G but not with BODIPY-DIF-3R. When added to isolated mitochondria in vitro, BODIPY-DIF-3G increased dose-dependently the rate of O2 consumption, but BODIPY-DIF-3R did not. These results suggest that the bioactive BODIPY-DIF-3G suppresses cell proliferation, at least in part, by altering mitochondrial activity, whereas the non-bioactive BODIPY-DIF-3R localizes to the mitochondria but does not affect mitochondrial activity or cell proliferation.
Vibrio vulnificus, a naturally occurring estuarine bacterium frequently transmitted to humans via raw oysters, is a leading cause of seafood-related deaths in the United States. Although unique virulence markers have not been identified to date, multiple biomarkers have been used previously to associate strains with clinical or environmental types of V. vulnificus. In this study, we evaluated the usefulness of these biomarkers in characterizing 349 V. vulnificus oyster isolates by the presence/absence of a viuB-associated fragment and genotypes of three biomarkers: the virulence-correlated gene (vcg), 16S rRNA, and the capsular polysaccharide (CPS) operon. Genotyping data indicated that environmental-type V. vulnificus strains accounted for the majority of oyster isolates, and the percentages ranged from 51.6% for 16S rRNA (type A) to 72.5% for CPS (allele 2 or none). There was also a small percentage (8%) of V. vulnificus isolates possessing both environmental (type A) and clinical (type B) genotypes of 16S rRNA. Additionally, the presence of the viuB fragment (41%) was significantly associated with clinical genotypes of V. vulnificus (p < 0.0001). An interesting seasonal pattern was observed, with clinical-type V. vulnificus isolates more frequently associated with warmer months. In conclusion, the majority of V. vulnificus isolates present in Louisiana raw oysters were of environmental type. There existed a seasonal variation in the V. vulnificus genotypes identified, which may help guide future control measures to focus more specifically on seasons that tend to accumulate more clinical-type V. vulnificus. The study also highlighted the need to identify unique virulence markers in this organism, which could facilitate future screening of virulent V. vulnificus strains from oysters.
Influenza is a serious health threat for people all over the world and the new and more effective antiviral drugs such as peramivir, laninamivir, and favipiravir have been developed. In this article we review new drugs and drug candidates of newer compounds, which are currently undergoing testing, against influenza with an emphasis on the recent progress of targeting of pathogen replication system, as well as a comprehensive, state-of-the-art picture of drug therapy.
Cadherin molecules are essential for tissue morphogenesis and are also related to cancer invasion and metastasis. Although normal melanocytes express E- and P-cadherin, the activity and expression of E- and P-cadherin in melanoma cells are still unknown. We measured the homophilic adhesion activity of human normal epidermal melanocytes and the melanoma cell lines MeWo and A375. The melanoma cells showed stronger homophilic adhesion activity than did the melanocytes, despite the lower expression of E- and P-cadherin in the melanoma cells. This result suggested that melanoma cells expressed other types of homophilic adhesion molecules. Using degenerate primers to amplify multiple cadherin subtypes, we performed a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with the first strand of cDNAs generated by reverse transcription of the mRNAs of the melanoma cells, and we isolated two known cadherin fragments, N-cadherin and PC42, and six novel cadherin fragments, cadherins ME1-ME6. The reverse transcriptase-PCR using specific primers of cadherins including E-, P-, and N-cadherins, PC42, and cadherins ME1-ME6 revealed that the melanoma cells expressed more kinds of cadherin molecules than did the melanocytes. Such cadherins may play an important role in melanoma cell-cell adhesion.
Evidence has accumulated in recent years that suggests that nitrate from the diet, particularly vegetables, is capable of producing bioactive NO in the vasculature, following bioconversion to nitrite by oral bacteria. The aim of the present review was to consider the current body of evidence for potential beneficial effects of dietary nitrate on blood pressure and endothelial function, with emphasis on evidence from acute and chronic human intervention studies. The studies to date suggest that dietary nitrate acutely lowers blood pressure in healthy humans. An inverse relationship was seen between dose of nitrate consumed and corresponding systolic blood pressure reduction, with doses of nitrate as low as 3 mmol of nitrate reducing systolic blood pressure by 3 mmHg. Moreover, the current studies provide some promising evidence on the beneficial effects of dietary nitrate on endothelial function. In vitro studies suggest a number of potential mechanisms by which dietary nitrate and its sequential reduction to NO may reduce blood pressure and improve endothelial function, such as: acting as a substrate for endothelial NO synthase; increasing vasodilation; inhibiting mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production and platelet aggregation. In conclusion, the evidence for beneficial effects of dietary nitrate on blood pressure and endothelial function is promising. Further long-term randomised controlled human intervention studies assessing the potential effects of dietary nitrate on blood pressure and endothelial function are needed, particularly in individuals with hypertension and at risk of CVD.
The aim of the present study was to estimate the absorption of 125I-labeled proinflammatory cytokines--interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) from inflamed porcine uterus into the uterine venous blood. Moreover, in order to test the hypothesis that the above cytokines penetrate directly into ovaries and oviduct via local destination transfer in the area of the ovarian vascular pedicle and bypassing the systemic circulation, the concentration of IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha in ovarian and oviductal tissues was also studied. These cytokine concentrations were also estimated in the ovarian venous blood. IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha from both control and inflamed uteri were absorbed into the uterine venous blood, but it was higher (P < 0.05-0.001) from the pathologically changed uteri. The uterine tissues, particularly the endometrium, of both control and inflamed uteri retained all studied cytokines, but to a higher degree (P < 0.001) in the inflamed uteri. Injections of IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha into the control and inflammatory changed uteri produced the presence of these proteins in the ovary and oviduct. However, the concentrations of IL-1beta and IL-6 in the ovarian and oviductal tissues was low after injections of control and inflamed uteri with these cytokines. In turn, administration of TNF-alpha into the inflammatory changed uteri lead to an enhancement in the concentration of this cytokine in the ovarian parenchyma (P < 0.05) and oviduct (P < 0.001). All studied cytokines were found in the ovarian venous blood after their injection into both control and inflamed uteri, which indicated its local destination transfer to the ovary. However, the concentration of cytokines increased (P <0.05-0.001) in the gilts with pathologically changed uteri as compared to controls. The study showed that both control and inflamed porcine uteri absorbed IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha into the uterine venous blood, but the values of absorbed cytokines from inflamed uteri were higher. Moreover, the quantity and the manner of the studied cytokineS absorption into the uterine venous blood differed.
Buffalo Y-chromosome specific repetitive DNA (BuRY.I) was cloned and sequenced in order to develop a sensitive method for sexing of buffalo preimplantation stage embryos using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A highly sensitive and reliable sex determination assay using a primary (BRY.I), nested (BuRYN.I) and multiplex (BuRYN.I, ZFX/ZFY) PCR was developed. The BRY.I and BuRYN.I primers are targeted to amplify Y-specific sequences, while the ZFX/ZFY loci was amplified to serve as a positive control for both male and female samples. Accuracy of the sex determination assay was initially verified with genomic DNA obtained from blood of known gender. Further sensitivity and reproducibility of the assay was examined using DNA obtained from 1 or 2 blastomeres to demi embryos. Altogether, 80 IVF-derived embryos ranging from the 2 to 4 cell to the blastocyst stage were used for sex determination. Definite and clear signals following PCR amplification were obtained from all embryo samples. Accuracy of assays was determined by comparing results from a single cell with those of blastocyst stage embryos, thereby indicating that 1 or 2 blastomeres from a preimplantation buffalo embryo is sufficient for sex determination by PCR. No misidentification was observed within the embryo samples using nested (BuRY.I), primary (BRY.I) and multiplex (BuRYN.I; ZFX/ZFY) PCR, suggesting that this technique is a highly reliable method for sexing buffalo embryos.
This study examined the anti-obesity effect and mechanism of action of blueberry peel extracts (BPE) in 3T3-L1 cells and high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese rats. The levels of lipid accumulation were measured, along with the changes in the expression of genes and proteins associated with adipocyte differentiation in 3T3-L1 cells. Evidenced by Oil-red O staining and triglyceride assay, BPE dose-dependently inhibited lipid accumulation at concentrations of 0, 50, and 200 microg/ml. BPE decreased the expression of the key adipocyte differentiation regulator C/EBPbeta, as well as the C/EBPalpha and PPARgamma genes, during the differentiation of preadipocytes into adipocytes. Moreover, BPE down-regulated adipocyte-specific genes such as aP2 and FAS compared with control adipocytes. The specific mechanism mediating the effects of BP revealed that insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of Akt was strongly decreased, and its downstream substrate, phospho-GSK3beta, was downregulated by BPE treatment in 3T3-L1 cells. Together, these data indicated that BP exerted anti-adipogenic activity by inhibiting the expression of PPARgamma and C/EBPbeta and the Akt signaling pathway in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Next, we investigated whether BP extracts attenuated HFD-induced obesity in rats. Oral administration of BPE reduced HFD-induced body weight gain significantly without affecting food intake. The epididymal or perirenal adipose tissue weights were lower in rats on an HFD plus BPE compared with the tissue weights of HFD-induced obese rats. Total cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the rats fed BPE were modestly reduced, and the HDL-cholesterol level was significantly increased in HFD plus BP-fed rats compared with those of HFD-fed rats. Taken together, these results demonstrated an inhibitory effect of BP on adipogenesis through the down-regulation of C/EBPbeta, C/EBPalpha, and PPARgamma and the reduction of the phospho-Akt adipogenic factor in 3T3-L1 cells. Moreover, BPE reduced body weight gain and inhibited fat accumulation in an HFD-induced animal model of obesity.
The composition of chlorophyll-precursor pigments, particularly the contents of monovinyl (MV) and divinyl (DV) protochlorophyllides (Pchlides), in etiolated tissues of higher plants were determined by polyethylene-column HPLC (Y. Shioi, S. I. Beale [1987] Anal Biochem 162: 493-499), which enables the complete separation of these pigments. DV-Pchlide was ubiquitous in etiolated tissue of higher plants. From the analyses of 24 plant species belonging to 17 different families, it was shown that the concentration of DV-Pchlide was strongly dependent on the plant species and the age of the plants. The ratio of DV-Pchlide to MV-Pchlide in high DV-Pchlide plants such as cucumber and leaf mustard decreased sharply with increasing age. Levels of DV-Pchlide in Gramineae plants were considerably lower at all ages compared with those of other plants. Etiolated tissues of higher plants such as barley and corn were, therefore, good sources of MV-Pchlide. Absorption spectra of the purified MV- and DV-Pchlides in ether are presented and compared.
Anti-Golgi antibodies are rare autoantibodies that have been described in systemic autoimmune diseases. Not all Golgi auto-antigens are known. The objective of this study was to identify a novel auto-antigen associated with anti-Golgi immune reactivity. Sera from a patient with Golgi immune reactivity and from a control individual were used for Western blotting after 2-dimensional gel separation of a rat Golgi-enriched extract. Betaine homocysteine S-methyltransferase 1 (BHMT1) was identified as an auto-antigen by MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometry. Using human recombinant BHMT1, a strong positive blotting signal was obtained with serum from the patient but not from a control. Pre-absorption of the serum sample with reactivity to BHMT1 with recombinant human BHMT1 resulted in decreased reactivity on Western blotting and in disappearance of the Golgi-like pattern on indirect immunofluorescence. Using immunocytochemistry, we confirmed the subcellular localization of BHMT1 to the Golgi apparatus. Antibodies to BHMT1 were found in four of 80 samples with a Golgi-pattern on indirect immunofluorescence. The antibodies were not associated with a specific clinical condition. We identified BHMT1 as a novel auto-antigen associated with anti-Golgi immune reactivity.
In cultures of L. lactis ssp. cremoris SK110, phage SK11G-resistant through the presence of pSK112, phage-sensitive variants segregated spontaneously that lacked the plasmid. In overnight batch culture these comprised up to 1% of the total population. Upon prolonged incubation in chemostat culture, a further loss of resistance was observed after a lag period. At high growth rates (0.7 h-1) this period amounted to approximately 35 generations, whereas cultures grown at rates of 0.4 and 0.1 h-1 remained resistant for 55 and 70 generations, respectively. At average-to-high growth rate, characteristics of the partially mixed populations that evolved were comparable to those of pure cultures of L. lactis ssp. cremoris SK110. However, in the culture fluid of the mixed populations that occurred at growth rate 0.1 h-1, higher acetate and formate concentrations were found than in the fluid of pure cultures of L. lactis ssp. cremoris SK110. This indicated that the former metabolized lactose more efficiently. Competition experiments between the resistant strain and a cured, sensitive derivative, L. lactis ssp. cremoris SK112, gave stable mixed populations. It is concluded that at average-to-high growth rates, loss of resistance from cultures of L. lactis ssp. cremoris SK110 had occurred due to instability of the plasmid and not to a competitive disadvantage of the resistant strain towards emerging sensitive variants.
Recombinant bacteria are useful vectors for delivering foreign antigens to mucosal surfaces and may elicit immune protection against sexually-transmitted pathogens. Recombinant, attenuated Salmonella typhimurium expressing the Simian Immunodeficiency Virus capsid protein (p27) were given to rhesus macaques by intragastric intubation. This route of immunization was compared with intramuscular injection of soluble p27 in adjuvant, and with immunization protocols that combined intragastric and intramuscular antigen exposures. Recombinant Salmonella stimulated p27-specific lymphoproliferative responses that were present transiently in peripheral blood, and were recalled easily by booster immunizations. Intramuscular p27 injection elicited strong serum antibody responses, but only low level capsid-specific proliferative responses. Recombinant Salmonella immunization elicited low levels of p27-specific antibodies in serum and did not suppress subsequent responses to parenteral immunization. Intragastric immunization of macaques with recombinant Salmonella typhimurium was safe and induced immune responses specific for the expressed, foreign antigen.
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) C-terminus contains three conserved tyrosines (Y-1068, Y-1148, Y-1173) which are phosphorylated upon EGF activation. To clarify the functional role of these tyrosines, each has been mutated to phenylalanine and studied as single, double and triple mutants in the full length receptor. EGF-dependent transforming ability of the single point mutants is similar to that of the wild type, while that of double mutants is decreased and an even lower activity is present in the triple mutant. In each bioassay, including EGF-dependent focal transformation, growth in agar and growth in low serum, mutant receptors display a similar hierarchy of activity. The lower activity is intrinsic in the mutants since they are expressed at similar level as the wild type and bind EGF with similar affinity. Deletion mutants lacking the last 19 or 63 amino acids (Velu et al., 1989a) show a similar decline in biological activity when compared to the corresponding point mutants, although the reduction is more pronounced than with the point mutants. Deletion of the last 123 aa, which removes all three tyrosines (Dc123), results in a receptor that is almost inactive biologically. The EGF-R kinase activity is affected by tyrosine substitution since in vitro phosphorylation of exogenous substrates is reduced in the double and triple mutants. Autophosphorylation, in vivo and in vitro, is also reduced, but not totally abolished in the triple point mutant and Dc123 indicating the existence of other autophosphorylation sites. A new site of autophosphorylation is found in the Dc123 mutant. We conclude, therefore, that the tyrosines at the extreme C-terminus positively regulate the biological and transforming activity of the EGF-R, probably via autophosphorylation.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of exposure to cell phone electromagnetic radiation on the frequency of micronuclei, broken eggs cells, binucleated cells, and karyorrhexis in epithelial cells of the oral mucosa. The sample was composed of 60 cell phone users, who were non-smokers and non-drinkers, and had no clinically visible oral lesions. Cells were obtained from anatomical sites with the highest incidence of oral cancer: lower lip, border of the tongue, and floor of the mouth. The Feulgen reaction was used for quantification of nuclear anomalies in 1,000 cells/slide. A slightly increase in the number of micronucleated cells in the lower lip and in binucleated cells on the floor of the mouth was observed in individuals who used their phones > 60 minutes/week. The analysis also revealed an increased number of broken eggs in the tongue of individuals owning a cell phone for over eight years. Results suggest that exposure to electromagnetic waves emitted by cell phones can increase nuclear abnormalities in individuals who use a cell phone for more than 60 minutes per week and for over eight years. Based on the present findings, we suggest that exposure to electromagnetic radiation emitted by cell phones may interfere with the development of metanuclear anomalies. Therefore, it is demonstrated that, despite a significant increase in these anomalies, the radiation emitted by cell phones among frequent users is within acceptable physiological limits.
In migrating fibroblasts, RhoA and its effector mDia1 regulate the selective stabilization of microtubules (MTs) polarized in the direction of migration. The conserved formin homology 2 domain of mDia1 is involved both in actin polymerization and MT stabilization, and the relationship between these two activities is unknown. We found that latrunculin A (LatA) and jasplakinolide, actin drugs that release mDia1 from actin filament barbed ends, stimulated stable MT formation in serum-starved fibroblasts and caused a redistribution of mDia1 onto MTs. Knockdown of mDia1 by small interfering RNA (siRNA) prevented stable MT induction by LatA, whereas blocking upstream Rho or integrin signaling had no effect. In search of physiological regulators of mDia1, we found that actin-capping protein induced stable MTs in an mDia1-dependent manner and inhibited the translocation of mDia on the ends of growing actin filaments. Knockdown of capping protein by siRNA reduced stable MT levels in proliferating cells and in starved cells stimulated with lysophosphatidic acid. These results show that actin-capping protein is a novel regulator of MT stability that functions by antagonizing mDia1 activity toward actin filaments and suggest a novel form of actin-MT cross-talk in which a single factor acts sequentially on actin and MTs.
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to the polysaccharide capsule of Cryptococcus neoformans can prolong survival in mice. However, the properties of antibodies that mediate protection are not fully understood. The IgM mAbs 12A1 and 13F1 originated from the same B cell and differ only by somatic mutations in their variable regions; yet mAb 12A1 protects against serotype D infection, while mAb 13F1 does not. Phage peptide display libraries were used to analyze the fine specificity of these two mAbs. The selection of distinct peptide motifs from identical libraries confirmed that mAbs 12A1 and 13F1 bound to two distinct epitopes. Immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy studies revealed differences in antibody localization within the capsule of serotype D strain; mAb 12A1 bound to the outer rim of the capsule resulting in an annular pattern, whereas mAb 13F1 bound throughout the capsule and had a punctate appearance. The difference in the binding pattern of mAb 12A1 and 13F1 was not observed on serotype A organisms, where both mAbs bound to the capsule with an annular fluorescence pattern. The fluorescence pattern of binding correlated with protective efficacy; mAb 13F1 prolonged survival of mice infected with the J11 serotype A strain (annular fluorescence), but not serotype D strains (punctate pattern). Annular binding, but not punctate binding, was associated with increased opsonic efficacy for phagocytosis of C. neoformans by J774.16 macrophage-like cells. The correlation between capsular binding pattern, opsonic activity, and ability to prolong survival suggests that the efficacy of anticryptococcal antibodies is dependent upon where they bind in the polysaccharide capsule.
To determine the relationships between miR-96-5p/-182-5p and GPC1 in pancreatic cancer (PC), we conducted the population and in vitro studies. We followed 38 pancreatic cancer patients, measured and compared the expression of miR-96-5p/-182-5p, GPC1, characteristics and patients' survival time of different miR-96-5p/-182-5p expression levels in PC tissues. In an in vitro study, we investigated the proliferation, cycle and apotosis in cells transfected with mimics/inhibitors of the two miRNAs, and determine their effects on GPC1 by dual-luciferase assay. In the follow-up study, we found that the expressions of miR-96-5p/-182-5p were lower/higher in PC tissues; patients with lower/higher levels of miR-96-5p/-182-5p suffered poorer characteristics and decreased survival time. In the in vitro study, the expressions of miR-96-5p/-182-5p were different in cells. Proliferation of cells transfected with miR-96-5p mimics/inhibitors was lower/higher in Panc-1/BxPC-3; when transfected with miR-182-5p mimics/inhibitors, proliferation of cells were higher/lower in AsPC-1/Panc-1. In a cell cycle study, panc-1 cells transfected with miR-96-5p mimics was arrested at G0/G1; BxPC-3 cells transfected with miR-96-5p inhibitors showed a significantly decrease at G0/G1; AsPC-1 cells transfected with miR-182-5p mimics was arrested at S; Panc-1 cells transfected with miR-182-5p inhibitors showed a decrease at S. MiR-96-5p mimics increased the apoptosis rate in Panc-1 cells, and its inhibitors decreased the apoptosis rate in BxPC-3. Dual luciferase assay revealed that GPC1 was regulated by miR-96-5p, not -182-5p. We found that miR-96-5p/-182-5p as good markers for PC; miR-96-5p, rather than -182-5p, inhibits GPC1 to suppress proliferation of PC cells.
Electrophysiologic studies in 64 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy who had sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were performed. A sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia was induced in 43 patients (67%). Electropharmacologic testing predicted an antiarrhythmic drug effective in 15 of 35 patients in whom sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia could be induced reproducibly (43% of tested patients, 23% of all patients). During median follow-up of 1.6 years, there were 32 arrhythmia recurrences and 24 cardiac arrests. Multivariate regression analysis identified treatment with a drug predicted to be effective at electropharmacologic testing as the only predictor of freedom from arrhythmia recurrence (p = 0.01); and treatment with a drug predicted to be effective at electropharmacologic testing and lower New York Heart Association functional class as independent predictors of freedom from cardiac arrest (p = 0.03 and p = 0.02, respectively). At median follow-up, the incidences of freedom from arrhythmia recurrence and from cardiac arrest were both 100% during treatment with a drug predicted to be effective at electropharmacologic testing versus 54 +/- 8% and 62 +/- 7%, respectively, during other treatments. These findings indicate that results of electropharmacologic testing accurately predict freedom from arrhythmia recurrence and cardiac arrest in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
INTRODUCTION: Despite the impact that training in research could have in postgraduate programs, certain specific knowledge of the trainees may increase their scientific production. We described the scientific production of a pediatric residency, and evaluated its association with specific knowledges and activities. METHODS: We developed a cross-sectional study, by self-administered survey to pediatric residents. The number of participations in research projects was registered, as well as certain specific knowledges and activities (informatics, English language, research methodology, university teaching positions). This association was assessed by logistic regression. RESULTS: We interviewed 122 pediatric residents (first year: 22.1%, second year: 23.1%, third year: 19.1%, fourth year: 24.6%, chiefs residents: 9%, instructors: 3.3%). A total of 311 participations in research were registered (there could be more than 1 author in them). From them, 105 were presented at scientific meetings and 16 were published. Length of service and having a university teaching position were independent predictors for presentation (OR= 6.3 and 2.8, respectively) and publication (OR= 4.2 and 6.5, respectively). CONCLUSION: Scientific production reached presentation at meetings in 33% of participations and publication, in 5%. Having a university teaching position was significantly associated with scientific production.
Muscle spindle fibers are specialized stretch receptors that allow the perception and coordination of limb movement. The differentiation of these specialized structures is initiated by signals derived from the in growing Ia sensory neurons during development. While the direct molecular signaling mechanisms between sensory neurons and developing muscle at nascent spindle fibers have been well documented in past studies the roles of muscle basal lamina components on this process have not previously been described. As such, our initial experiments addressed potential roles for agrin (AGRN) and laminin (LN) in the expression of the transcription factor Egr3. Levels of Egr3 were monitored using immunoblot analysis and both basal lamina molecules proved effective in inducing Erg3 expression. Previous work had established neuregulin (NRG) as a critical signaling component in spindle fiber development so blocking experiments with NRG and ErbB inhibitors were then used to determine if LN-induced Egr3 expression was occurring as a result of NRG-ErbB signaling and not via other, novel pathway. Inhibiting signaling through this pathway did indeed reduce the expression of Egr3. Finally, we looked at alpha-dystrogylcan, a shared receptor for AGRN and LN at neuromuscular junctions. Using a alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) silenced muscle cell line and an anti-alpha-DG antibody we attempted to block basal lamina/alpha-DG interactions. Again, and in both instances, Egr3 expression was significantly decreased. Taken together, analysis of the results from these experiments revealed that indeed AGRN, LN, and alpha-DG influence Egr3 levels and therefore may play an important role in spindle fiber differentiation.
BACKGROUND: Levels of the pro-tumorigenic prostaglandin PGE(2) are increased in colorectal cancer, previously attributed to increased synthesis through COX-2 upregulation and, more recently, to decreased catabolism. The functionally linked genes 15-prostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH) and the prostaglandin transporter PGT co-operate in prostaglandin degradation and are downregulated in colorectal cancer. We previously reported repression of 15-PGDH expression by the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, commonly deregulated during early colorectal neoplasia. Here we asked whether beta-catenin also regulates PGT expression. METHODS: The effect of beta-catenin deletion in vivo was addressed by PGT immunostaining of beta-catenin(-/lox)-villin-cre-ERT2 mouse tissue. The effect of siRNA-mediated beta-catenin knockdown and dnTCF4 induction in vitro was addressed by semi-quantitative and quantitative real-time RT-PCR and immunoblotting. RESULTS: This study shows for the first time that deletion of beta-catenin in murine intestinal epithelium in vivo upregulates PGT protein, especially in the crypt epithelium. Furthermore, beta-catenin knockdown in vitro increases PGT expression in both colorectal adenoma- and carcinoma-derived cell lines, as does dnTCF4 induction in LS174T cells. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that beta-catenin employs a two-pronged approach to inhibiting prostaglandin turnover during colorectal neoplasia by repressing PGT expression in addition to 15-PGDH. Furthermore, our data highlight a potential mechanism that may contribute to the non-selective NSAID aspirin's chemopreventive efficacy.
BACKGROUND: Lung protective ventilation strategies utilizing lower tidal volumes per predicted body weight (PBW) and positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) have been suggested to be beneficial in a variety of surgical populations. Recent clinical studies have used control groups ventilated with high tidal volumes without PEEP based on the assumption that this reflects current clinical practice. We hypothesized that ventilation strategies have changed over time, that most anesthetics in U.S. academic medical centers are currently performed with lower tidal volumes, and that most receive PEEP. METHODS: Intraoperative data were pooled for adults undergoing general anesthesia with tracheal intubation. Median tidal volumes per kilogram of PBW were categorized as > 10, 8-10 and < 8 mL per kg of PBW. The percentages of cases in 2013 that were performed with median tidal volumes < 8 mL per kg of PBW and PEEP were determined. As a secondary analysis, a proportional odds model using institution, year, height, weight and gender determined the relative associations of these factors using categorical and interquartile odds ratios. RESULTS: 295,540 cases were analyzed from 5 institutions over a period of 10 years. In 2013, 59.3% of cases used median tidal volumes < 8 mL per kg of PBW, 83.3% used PEEP, and 51.0% used both. Of those cases with PEEP, 60.9% used a median pressure of >/= 5 cmH2O. Predictors of lower categories of tidal volumes included height (odds ratio (OR) 10.83, 95% confidence interval [10.50, 11.16]), institution (lowest OR 0.98 [0.96, 1.00], highest OR 9.63 [9.41, 9.86]), year (lowest OR 1.32 [1.21, 1.44], highest OR 6.31 [5.84, 6.82]), male gender (OR 1.10 [1.07, 1.12]), and weight (OR 0.30 [0.29, 0.31]). CONCLUSION: Most general anesthetics with tracheal intubation at the institutions surveyed are currently performed with a median tidal volume < 8 mL per kg of PBW, most are managed with PEEP of >/= 5 cmH2O and approximately half utilize both. Given the diversity of the institutions included, this is likely reflective of practice in U.S. academic medical centers. The utilization of higher tidal volumes without PEEP in control groups for clinical research studies should be reconsidered.
The ideal ophthalmic anti-infective exhibits broad-spectrum activity against gram-positive, gram-negative, and atypical bacterial species. These pathogens can cause potentially blinding infections such as keratitis and endophthalmitis, both of which are associated with ophthalmic surgery or traumatic injury. These infections often require aggressive antibacterial therapy, preferably with newer generations of antibiotics. In this study, minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) values for gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin were determined in vitro against bacterial strains that were isolated from suspected cases of bacterial keratitis and endophthalmitis. The ocular isolates included 7 gram-positive, 4 gram-negative, and 3 atypical bacterial species. Gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin exhibited similar activity against 6 gram-positive organisms: Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Bacillus cereus, and Enterococcus faecalis. MIC90 values for the drugs against these isolates ranged from 0.08 mg/mL to 0.57 mg/mL and were comparable to previously published values against isolates from patients with systemic infections. The MIC90 for gatifloxacin against Streptococcus viridans was 0.22 mg/mL compared with 0.73 mg/mL for moxifloxacin (P = .011). Among the gram-negative isolates, the mean MIC90 for gatifloxacin against Pseudomonas aeruginosa was 1.28 mg/mL compared with 2.60 mg/ mL for moxifloxacin (P = .023). MIC90 values for gatifloxacin against Klebsiella pneumoniae and Enterobacter aerogenes were one fourth to one fifth the values for moxifloxacin. For the atypicals, the MIC90 values for gatifloxacin against Nocardia asteroides and Mycobacterium chelonae were one fourth the corresponding values for moxifloxacin. Gatifloxacin demonstrated a broad spectrum of activity against several key ocular pathogens tested in this study and was at least as effective as moxifloxacin against these pathogens.
Neuronal apoptosis in the substantia nigra par compacta (SNpc) appears to play an essential role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. However, the mechanisms responsible for the death of dopaminergic neurons are not fully understood yet. To explore the apoptotic mechanisms, we used a well-known parkinsonian toxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP(+)), to induce neuronal apoptosis in the human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cell line. The most common method of interaction between cells is gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) mediated by gap junctions (GJs) formed by transmembrane proteins called connexins (Cx). Modulation of GJIC affects cell viability or growth, implying that GJIC may have an important role in maintaining homeostasis in various organs. Here, we hypothesized that increasing the level of the gap junction protein Cx43 in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells could provide neuroprotection. First, our experiments demonstrated that knocking down Cx43 protein by using Cx43-specific shRNA in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells potentiated MPP(+)-induced neuronal apoptosis evident from decreased cell viability. In another experiment, we demonstrated that over-expression of Cx43 in the SH-SY5Y cell system decreased MPP(+)-induced apoptosis based on the MTT assay and reduced the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and the release of cytochrome C based on Western blot analysis. Taken together, our results suggest that Cx43 could mediate resistance against MPP(+)-induced apoptosis in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells via modulating the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway.
We report the synthesis and encapsulation properties of long (up to 5 nm) molecular nanotubes 1-4, which are based on calix[4]arenes and can be filled with multiple nitrosonium (NO(+)) ions upon reaction with NO(2)/N(2)O(4) gases. These are among the largest nanoscale molecular containers prepared to date and can entrap up to five guests. The structure and properties of tubular complexes 1(NO(+))(2)-4(NO(+))(5) were studied by UV/Vis, FTIR, and (1)H NMR spectroscopy in solution, and also by molecular modeling. Entrapment of NO(+) in 1(NO(+))(2)-4(NO(+))(5) is reversible, and addition of [18]crown-6 quickly recovers starting tubes 1-4. The FTIR and titration data revealed enhanced binding of NO(+) in longer tubes, which may be due to cooperativity. The described nanotubes may serve as materials for storing and converting NO(x) and also offer a promise to further develop supramolecular chemistry of molecular containers. These findings also open wider perspectives towards applications of synthetic nanotubes as alternatives to carbon nanotubes.
Cellular senescence, an irreversible growth arrest triggered by a variety of stressors, plays important roles in normal physiology and tumor suppression, but accumulation of senescent cells with age contributes to the functional decline of tissues. Senescent cells undergo dramatic alterations to their chromatin landscape that affect genome accessibility and their transcriptional program. These include the loss of DNA-nuclear lamina interactions, the distension of centromeres, and changes in chromatin composition that can lead to the activation of retrotransposons. Here we discuss these findings, as well as recent advances in microscopy and genomics that have revealed the importance of the higher-order spatial organization of the genome in defining and maintaining the senescent state.
A bacterial strain, named P4, isolated previously from microcosms containing oil-contaminated soil collected from an environmentally protected area of a tropical Atlantic forest (Biological Reserve of Poco das Antas) located in Brazil was identified as Dietzia cinnamea by morphological, biochemical and genotypic tests. Arabian Light and Marlin oils were both degraded when strain P4 was tested for oil degradation ability in microplates. Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons (TPH) analysis, determined by gas chromatography, showed that strain P4 degraded a wide range of n-alkanes, and also pristane and phytane. Furthermore, this strain was also able to grow in mineral liquid media amended with carbazole, quinoline, naphthalene, toluene, gasoline and diesel as the sole carbon sources. The species D. cinnamea has been previously described with only one representative strain isolated from a perianal swab of a patient with a bone marrow transplant. With the results presented here this species is implicated not only as a human pathogen but also as a potential strain for further studies concerning its role for bioremediation of oil contaminated soil.
Defence against Leishmania depends upon Th1 inflammatory response and, a major problem in susceptible models, is the turnoff of the leishmanicidal activity of macrophages with IL-10, IL-4, and COX-2 upregulation, as well as immunosuppressive PGE2, all together inhibiting the respiratory burst. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) activation is responsible for macrophages polarization on Leishmania susceptible models where microbicide functions are deactivated. In this paper, we demonstrated that, at least for L. mexicana, PPAR activation, mainly PPAR gamma , induced macrophage activation through their polarization towards M1 profile with the increase of microbicide activity against intracellular pathogen L. mexicana. PPAR activation induced IL-10 downregulation, whereas the production of proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF- alpha , IL-1 beta , and IL-6 remained high. Moreover, PPAR agonists treatment induced the deactivation of cPLA2-COX-2-prostaglandins pathway together with an increase in TLR4 expression, all of whose criteria meet the M1 macrophage profile. Finally, parasite burden, in treated macrophages, was lower than that in infected nontreated macrophages, most probably associated with the increase of respiratory burst in these treated cells. Based on the above data, we conclude that PPAR agonists used in this work induces M1 macrophages polarization via inhibition of cPLA2 and the increase of aggressive microbicidal activity via reactive oxygen species (ROS) production.
BACKGROUND: Patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) undergoing pulmonary resection for lung cancer carry risks of acute exacerbations of IPF (AE) postoperatively. Currently, agents which may attenuate AE are actively sought. Urinary trypsin inhibitor, ulinastatin, is a synthetic glycoprotein which may potentially inhibit various inflammatory factors associated with the development and progression of IPF. The present study was done to evaluate the effects of administration of high dose ulinastatin in lung cancer patients with IPF immediately following lung resection. METHODS: Patients with IPFs radiologically diagnosed on high resolution CT, and histologically diagnosed resectable lung cancers, were eligible for the study. The effects of escalating doses of ulinastatin 3x10(5), 6x10(5), and 9x10(5) units/body/day, administered postoperatively for 3 days were evaluated. The endpoints were safety and feasibility. RESULTS: Nine patients were evaluated, in cohorts of 3 patients per dosage. Postoperative follow up ranged from 3 to 12 months (median 9 months). The postoperative courses were uneventful in all patients. No subjective adverse events such as abdominal symptoms or skin rashes, or objective adverse events as per serum laboratory tests, such as liver or kidney dysfunctions potentially attributable to ulinastatin administration were observed. AE was seen in one patient at 3 months after surgery, but since this occurred shortly after administration of chemotherapy, it was considered to be attributable to the chemotherapy rather than surgery. DISCUSSION: Ulinastatin administration after lung resection in lung cancer patients with IPF was considered to be safe and feasible. Further study is planned at the highest dose of this study to evaluate efficacy. TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN.ac.jp/ctr/UMIN000002410.
A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique to detect Chlamydia trachomatis DNA was used to examine synovial specimens from patients with reactive arthritis. We were able to detect C. trachomatis DNA in synovial specimens which had been seeded with intact elementary bodies or chlamydial DNA. However, we were unable to detect chlamydial DNA in unseeded synovial specimens from 10 patients with sexually acquired reactive arthritis, 17 patients with reactive arthritis and 11 control patients with other arthropathies. In addition, using a monoclonal antibody technique, we were unable to detect chlamydial antigen in any of the synovial cell deposits examined. We conclude that C. trachomatis DNA was not present in the joints of these patients at the time of synovial fluid collection, and suggest that either DNA degradation occurred rapidly after viable chlamydiae had entered the joint or that chlamydial DNA was not present at any stage of the reactive response.
Thyroid hormones (THs) exert a number of physiological effects on the cardiovascular system. Some of the nongenomic actions of T3 are achieved by cross coupling the TH receptor (TR) with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase Akt (Akt) pathway. We observed that both T3 and T4 rapidly stimulated Akt phosphorylation and Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) activation, which resulted in cell migration, in a PI3K-dependent manner in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). We identified the expression of type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2), which converts T4 to T3, and TRalpha1 in HUVECs. D2 activity was significantly stimulated by (Bu)2cAMP in HUVECs. The blockade of D2 activity through transfection of small interfering RNA (siRNA) specific to D2 as well as by addition of iopanoic acid, a potent D2 inhibitor, abolished Akt phosphorylation, Rac activation, and cell migration induced by T4 but not by T3. The inhibition of TRalpha1 expression by the transfection of siRNA for TRalpha1 canceled Akt phosphorylation, Rac activation, and cell migration induced by T3 and T4. These findings suggest that conversion of T4 to T3 by D2 is required for TRalpha1/PI3K-mediated nongenomic actions of T4 in HUVECs, including stimulation of Akt phosphorylation and Rac activation, which result in cell migration.
The objectives of this study were to develop techniques to detect BVDV associated with single or small groups of bovine embryos contained in small aliquots of medium using either virus isolation (VI) or real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-QPCR) assays. In vivo-derived and in vitro-produced bovine embryos at 7 d post-fertilization were exposed to SD-1, a high affinity strain of BVDV, for 2 h and then processed according to the International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) guidelines prior to testing. Groups of five or two in vivo-derived embryos, and single in vivo-derived embryos, were VI positive for BVDV 100, 50, and 33% of the time, and were RT-QPCR positive 100, 75, and 42% of the time, respectively. The virus was detected by the VI technique in all of the groups of five or two in vitro-produced embryos and in all of the single in vitro-produced embryos, and it was detected in 100, 80, and 50%, using RT-QPCR. Techniques for RT-QPCR were sufficiently sensitive to detect 10 copies of viral RNA in a sample and to detect BVDV associated with single embryos. Application of this new technology, RT-QPCR, will facilitate additional studies to further assess the risk of transmission of BVDV through embryo transfer.
A two-step procedure is described for the isolation of lysosomal alpha-glucosidase from human urine. In the second step, affinity chromatography on Sephadex G-100, two fractions with acid alpha-glucosidase activity were obtained. Fraction I contained alpha-glucosidase of Mr 109000, whereas fraction II contained components of Mr 76000 and 70000. alpha-Glucosidase in fraction I had an Mr similar to that of the precursor of alpha-glucosidase detected in the medium of fibroblasts after labelling with [14C]leucine. The components in fraction II had Mr identical to those of the mature forms of alpha-glucosidase found in placenta or cultured human skin fibroblasts. alpha-Glucosidase in fraction I contained mannose 6-phosphate (3.5 mol/mol polypeptide). No mannose 6-phosphate was present in the components in fraction II. Fraction I, but not fraction II, was avidly endocytosed by alpha-glucosidase-deficient cultured human skin fibroblasts. Endocytosis of fraction I was inhibited by mannose 6-phosphate. The pH optimum and Km values for p-nitrophenyl alpha-glucoside, maltose and glycogen of fractions I and II alpha-glucosidase were almost identical. However, the activity with glycogen relative to that of either p-nitrophenyl alpha-glucoside or maltose was lower in fraction I than in fraction II. It is concluded that fraction I consists of the precursor form of alpha-glucosidase and fraction II of the mature forms of the enzyme. The importance of urine as a source of precursors of lysosomal enzymes is discussed.
In compiling a comprehensive map of the ligand binding capacity of elements within the chemokine system, we have determined the spectrum of chemokines capable of interacting with the poxvirus-encoded viral CC chemokine inhibitor, vCCI. More than 80 chemokines were tested in parallel for their ability to displace radiolabeled signature chemokines from vCCI. Of these chemokines, 26 showed potential high affinity interactions. These interactions revealed an expanded spectrum of binding capacity for vCCI to now include molecules such as human myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1 as ligands. In addition, high affinity viral protein-protein interactions were revealed. For example, binding between poxvirus vCCI and the herpesvirus vMIP-II from HHV8 occurs with IC(50) approximately 10-50 nm. Unusual dissociation kinetics were observed between certain chemokines and vCCI. Notably, many ligands displayed a precipitous displacement profile, suggesting marked positive cooperativity of binding. Finally, heterologous competition provided evidence for overlapping but distinct binding sites for the many chemokines that bind to vCCI. The determination of the binding fingerprint and unusual binding interactions of vCCI with a large number of chemokines suggest a finely honed evolutionary strategy of chemokine sequestration during viral infection.
BACKGROUND: Because of the increasing number of resistant middle ear pathogens and the impact of the new conjugate Streptococcus pneumoniae vaccine, an active surveillance of the microbiology and susceptibility pattern of middle ear pathogens is required. OBJECTIVE: To study the microbiology and susceptibility pattern of middle ear pathogens obtained from Costa Rican children with acute otitis media (AOM), recurrent otitis media (ROM) and therapeutic failure otitis media (FOM). METHODS: Between 1999 and 2001 middle ear fluid (MEF) was collected from 276 Costa Rican patients. S. pneumoniae serotyping and pulsed field gel electrophoresis analysis was done on available strains. RESULTS: Among the total study population, 102 were AOM patients, 98 were ROM patients and 76 were FOM patients. Overall S. pneumoniae (88 strains) was the most common pathogen isolated followed by Haemophilus influenzae (41 strains) and Streptococcus pyogenes (10 strains). H. influenzae was the most common agent in FOM patients (P = 0.015). Beta-lactamase production was observed in 3 of 41 (7%) H. influenzae strains and 3 of 3 (100%) Moraxella catarrhalis strains. Penicillin-nonsusceptible S. pneumoniae strains were more common in FOM (64%) and ROM (63%) patients than in AOM (42%) patients (P = 0.05). S. pneumoniae serotype 19F was the most prevalent serotype, mainly within one distinct clone. CONCLUSIONS: Overall S. pneumoniae serotype 19F was the most common isolate from the middle ear fluid of Costa Rican children. Beta-lactamase-negative H. influenzae was the most prevalent in the subpopulation of patients with FOM. S. pyogenes was the third most common isolate and M. catarrhalis was uncommon.
The stratum corneum (SC) is the final product of the process of epidermal differentiation. Besides its crucial protective role as a physical permeability barrier, this composite structure made of cornified keratinocytes embedded in a layered lipid matrix is also, by nature, a tissue that keeps track of past events occurring in the outermost living layers. In normal human epidermis, formation of the SC is very rapid, and during this cornification process several structures expressed by the last granular layer of keratinocytes become entrapped and immobilized at the cells' periphery. Cell-cell junctions are obvious targets of transglutaminases that cross-link junctions' components within the corneocyte envelopes. Thus, desmosomes and tight junctions (TJs) in living cells become fixed at the corneocyte periphery and cannot be recycled anymore. We have quantified the TJ-like structures residing in the SC of human skin explants subjected to environmental stress and compared these results with fresh skin controls. Significant overexpression of TJ-like cell-cell envelope fusions has been observed in the stressed epidermis and in two different hereditary skin diseases characterized by increased SC cohesion. Quantitation of TJ-like structures has contributed to the interpretation of the diseases' physiopathology. Other examples of information retrieved from the SC concern fluctuating lipid expression in the course of atopic dermatitis and patterns of corneodesmosome breakdown influencing SC desquamation. It is, therefore, possible to analyse and quantify the traces left in the SC and to draw conclusions on the dynamics of living tissue over the past several days.
Embryonic stem cells provide a potential resource for research and drug screening. To make such a resource feasible, it is necessary to generate cells of sufficient quality and quantity. The challenge is to expand cell numbers while maintaining the fidelity of phenotype and to control and direct differentiation to produce the cell type of interest in a format that is suitable for drug screening. At present, large-scale culturing of human ES cell lines is problematic and provides substantial challenges. This article provides an overview of current bioprocessing techniques that could be used to generate cells for drug discovery applications. This will generate further technical expertise that can be applied in the production of cells for potential therapeutic applications.
Exercise has a potent insulin-sensitivity enhancing effect on skeletal muscle, but the intracellular mechanisms that mediate this effect are not well understood. In muscle, Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) regulates both insulin- and contraction-stimulated glucose transport and is dysregulated in insulin resistant muscle. However, whether Rac1 is involved in mediating enhanced insulin sensitivity after an acute bout of exercise is unresolved. To address this question, we investigated after exercise whole-body (insulin tolerance test) as well as muscle (insulin-stimulated 2-deoxyglucose transport in isolated soleus muscle) insulin sensitivity in inducible muscle-specific Rac1 knockout (mKO) and wild-type (WT) littermate mice. Previous exercise enhanced whole-body insulin sensitivity by 40% in WT mice and rescued the insulin intolerance in Rac1 mKO mice by improving whole-body insulin sensitivity by 230%. In agreement, previous exercise significantly improved insulin sensitivity by 20% in WT and by 40% in Rac1 mKO soleus muscles. These findings suggest that muscle Rac1 is dispensable for the insulin sensitizing effect of exercise. Moreover, insulin resistance in Rac1 mKO mice can be completely normalized by previous exercise explaining why insulin resistant patients can increase insulin action with exercise despite dysfunctional Rac1 activity in muscle.
By means of the aluminum-formaldehyde (ALFA) fluorescence technique for monoamine visualization the distribution of catecholamines was studied in the caudal spinal cord, particularly in relation to motoneurons innervating pelvic structures. In the lumbosacral cord all parts of the spinal gray matter were found to contain catecholamines. In the dorsal horn the most intense fluorescence was seen in the superficial layers. The motoneuron neuropil exhibited the most prominent catecholamine-fluorescence of the ventral horn layers. In the sixth lumbar segment, which contains the motor nuclei that innervate the pelvic striated muscles as well as one innervating muscles in the lower limb, a differential distribution of the density of catecholamine fluorescence was presented by the individual nuclei. The catecholamine fibers in the motoneuron neuropil were seen closely surrounding the motoneuron somata, suggesting the existence of axosomatic contacts, and by utilizing the fluorescent retrograde tracer True Blue in combination with the ALFA method tentative axosomatic noradrenergic synapses on identified neurons innervating small striated pelvic muscles could be visualized in the light microscope. In the intermediate gray the intermediolateral nucleus in thoracic and upper lumbar segments was the most heavily innervated area, followed by the medial lumbar sympathetic group, which contains the majority of the sympathetic preganglionic neurons innervating the pelvic organs. The parasympathetic intermediolateral nucleus in the upper sacral segments received a catecholamine innervation of moderate density. The catecholamine innervation pattern is discussed in relation to the patterns of other putative transmitters. The distribution of catecholamine fluorescence in relation to nuclei that control the pelvic organs differs from the arrangement of other transmitters in this region. The complexity of the innervation of the pelvic organs and their related striated muscles is thus further stressed.
Here, we characterized behavioral abnormalities induced by prolonged social isolation in adult rodents. Social isolation induced both anxiety- and anhedonia-like symptoms and decreased cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) activity in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcSh). All of these abnormalities were reversed by chronic, but not acute, antidepressant treatment. However, although the anxiety phenotype and its reversal by antidepressant treatment were CREB-dependent, the anhedonia-like symptoms were not mediated by CREB in NAcSh. We found that decreased CREB activity in NAcSh correlated with increased expression of certain K(+) channels and reduced electrical excitability of NAcSh neurons, which was sufficient to induce anxiety-like behaviors and was reversed by chronic antidepressant treatment. Together, our results describe a model that distinguishes anxiety- and depression-like behavioral phenotypes, establish a selective role of decreased CREB activity in NAcSh in anxiety-like behavior, and provide a mechanism by which antidepressant treatment alleviates anxiety symptoms after social isolation.
INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: We evaluated the potential role of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) in improvement of urinary continence following birth-trauma injury. METHODS: Human MSCs were injected periurethrally or systemically into rats immediately after vaginal distention (VD) (n = 90). Control groups were non-VD (uninjured/untreated, n = 15), local or systemic saline (injection/control, n = 90), and dermofibroblast (cell therapy/control, n = 90). Leak-point pressure (LPP) was measured 4, 10, and 14 days later. Urethras were morphometrically evaluated. In another sets of VD and non-VD rats, the fate of periurethrally injected hMSC, biodistribution, and in vivo viability was studied using human Alu genomic repeat staining, PKH26 labeling, and luciferase-expression labeling, respectively. RESULTS: Saline- and dermofibroblast-treated control rats demonstrated lower LPP than non-VD controls at days 4 and 14 (P < 0.01). LPP after systemic hMSC and periurethral hMSC treatment were comparable with non-VD controls at 4, 10, and 14 days (P > 0.05). Local saline controls demonstrated extensive urethral tissue bleeding. The connective tissue area/urethral section area proportion and vascular density were higher in the local hMSC- versus the saline-treated group at 4 and 14 days, respectively. No positive Alu-stained nuclei were observed in urethras at 4, 10, and 14 days. PKH26-labelled cells were found in all urethras at 2 and 24 h. Bioluminescence study showed increased luciferase expression from day 0 to 1 following hMSC injection. CONCLUSIONS: Human MSCs restored the continence mechanism with an immediate and sustained effect in the VD model, while saline and dermofibroblast therapy did not. Human MSCs remained at the site of periurethral injection for <7 days. We hypothesize that periurethral hMSC treatment improves vascular, connective tissue, and hemorrhage status of urethral tissues after acute VD injury.
During most of the 1970s and 1980s, the number of biomedical Ph.D.'s conferred in the United States was fairly constant. From 1987 to 1995, however, there was an increase of almost 50% in the number of biomedical Ph.D.'s awarded by U.S. institutions; nearly 70% of this increase can be accounted for by the increase in the number of noncitizens receiving a Ph.D. in the U.S. Although unemployment among U.S. citizens with biomedical Ph.D.'s is now extremely low--less than 2.0%--there have been some important changes in the job market for biomedical Ph.D.'s. The total number of biomedical scientists has grown, whereas the number of faculty positions has remained stable, causing a decline in faculty positions as a percentage of total employment for biomedical scientists. Jobs in industry have increased, and in the future might surpass academic jobs as the most prevalent form of employment for U.S. biomedical scientists.
Cardiac troponin C (cTnC) is the calcium binding subunit of the troponin complex that triggers the thin filament response to calcium influx into the sarcomere. cTnC consists of two globular EF-hand domains (termed the N- and C-domains) connected by a flexible linker. While the conformation of each domain of cTnC has been thoroughly characterized through NMR studies involving either the isolated N-domain (N-cTnC) or C-domain (C-cTnC), little attention has been paid to the range of interdomain orientations possible in full-length cTnC that arises as a consequence of the flexibility of the domain linker. Flexibility in the domain linker of cTnC is essential for effective regulatory function of troponin. We have therefore utilized paramagnetic relaxation enhancement (PRE) NMR to assess the interdomain orientation of cTnC. Ensemble fitting of our interdomain PRE measurements reveals that isolated cTnC has considerable interdomain flexibility and preferentially adopts a bent conformation in solution, with a defined range of relative domain orientations.
BACKGROUND: Safety champions are effective in a variety of safety initiatives; however, there are no reports of their role in hospital-acquired infections prevention. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to describe the association of the presence of a physician safety champion with our urinary catheter device utilization ratios (DUR) in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU). METHODS: Our PICU has incidence rates of catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTI) and urinary catheter DUR above the 90th percentile. Using a quasi-experimental design, we compared our DUR when the PICU team was exposed and unexposed (champion's maternity leaves) to a physician safety champion. Hospital acquired infection (HAI) surveillance of all PICU admissions between April 1st 2009 and June 29th 2013 was done prospectively. To ensure stable acuity of the patient population over time, we used the central venous catheter (CVC) DUR as a control. RESULTS: The urinary catheter DUR was 0.44 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.42-0.45) during the unexposed period versus 0.39 (95%CI 0.38-0.40) during the exposed period, for an absolute difference of 0.05 (95%CI 0.03-0.06; p<0.0001). The overall CVC DUR increased from 0.57 (95%CI 0.55-0.58) during the unexposed period to 0.63 (95%CI 0.61-0.64) during the exposed period, an absolute increase of 0.06 (95%CI 0.04-0.08; p<0.0001). Comparing the exposed and unexposed periods, adjusting for time trend, we observed a 17% decrease in the urinary catheter DUR when the safety champion was present (odds ratio [OR] 0.83; 95%CI 0.77-0.90). The rate of catheter-associated urinary tract infections did not change. CONCLUSIONS: The presence of a unit-based safety champion can have a positive impact on urinary catheter DUR in a PICU.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Fruits of Phyllanthus emblica Linn. or Emblica officinalis Gaertn. (Phyllanthaceae) are used in Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani, Arabic, Tibetan and various other folk medicinal systems to promote intelligence and memory. Recent study from our lab indicated the neuroprotective effect of tannoids principles of Emblica officinalis (EoT) against memory loss caused by aluminium chloride (AlCl3) intoxication through attenuating acetylcholine esterase activity and the expression of amyloid beta protein biosynthesis related markers. However the molecular mechanism of EoT has not yet been fully elucidated. AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of the present study was to further investigate the neuroprotective mechanisms of EoT against AlCl3-induced cognitive deficits, tau hyperphosphorylation, oxidative stress and apoptosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rats were treated with AlCl3 for 60 days to induce biochemical and physiological abnormalities similar to AD patients. AD rats were treated with EoT (100mg/kg., bw. oral) for 60 days. For the examination of neuroprotective effect of EoT, behavior analysis, biochemical estimations and western blot were performed in the hippocampus and cortex of control, EoT treated and untreated AD rats. RESULTS: Intraperitoneal injections of AlCl3 (100mg/kg., b.w.) for 60 days enhanced the learning and memory deficits, levels of TBARS and diminished the levels of reduced glutathione and activities of enzymatic antioxidants as compared to control group. Moreover toxicity of AlCl3 is accompanied by the enhanced expressions of Bax, caspases-3, -9, cytosolic cytochrome c (cyto c), and pTau along with diminished expressions of Bcl-2, mitochondrial cyto c, pGSK-3beta and pAkt. Coadministration of EoT nullified the cognitive deficits, biochemical abnormalities and apoptosis induced by AlCl3 treatment. Moreover EoT prevents tau hyperphosphorylation by targeting the GSK-3beta/Akt signaling pathway. CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms that EoT would be used as a potential drug candidate for AD and other tau pathology-related neuronal degenerative diseases.
Three cases of urethral caruncle were recognized in bitches with a history of chronic dysuria. Clinical and radiological examinations revealed the presence of inoperable lesions involving much of the urethra in all three cases. At post-mortem examination of Case 1, an oval swelling, 1.5 x 1.0 cm, was detected within the wall of the urethra close to the vagino-urethral orifice. In Case 2, firm, mottled yellow, white and red tissue formed a thickening between the urethra and vagina. In Case 3, a cylindrical cream mass, 8 cm long and 3 cm in diameter, surrounded the urethra and impinged on the wall of the vagina. Histologically, glandular structures lined by a single layer of epithelial cells and a mixed granulomatous inflammatory reaction were present in the wall of the urethra of all three cases.
BACKGROUND: Therapeutic options are limited for infections because of Acinetobacter baumannii and carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE). Study aim was to compare the efficacy of colistin to tigecycline for the treatment of these types of infections. METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted at the Detroit Medical Center. Adult patients with infections because of A baumannii or CRE in 2009 who received >/=2 doses of colistin or tigecycline were studied. Risk factors, outcomes, and costs were analyzed. RESULTS: There were 82 patients with infections because of A baumannii, 12 with CRE, and 12 with A baumannii and CRE coinfection. Seventy-one patients received colistin, 16 received tigecycline, and 19 received both colistin and tigecycline. Seven isolates were nonsusceptible to colistin and 79 to tigecycline. Patients receiving colistin alone or in combination were more likely to die during their hospitalization than patients receiving only tigecycline (P = .002). However, patients receiving colistin had higher severity of acute illness and had notable delays in initiation of effective antimicrobial therapy (P < .001). CONCLUSION: Compared with patients who received tigecycline alone, patients who received colistin alone or in combination had a higher severity of acute illness indices and delays in initiation of effective therapy. This increased severity of illness contributed to the increased rate of mortality among patients treated with colistin for A baumannii or CRE infections.
The effects of various pairs of convulsant and nonconvulsant barbiturates on mono- and polysynaptic activity were studied in the isolated spinal cord of the immature rat, using extracellular recording. The convulsant barbiturates, 5-ethyl-5-(3-methylbut-2'-enyl) barbituric acid (3M2B), 5-ethyl-5-(1,3-dimethylbut-1'-enyl) barbituric acid (1,3M1B) and (+)-5-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-5-ethyl barbituric acid [(+) DMBB] all increased the monosynaptic reflex at concentrations between 5 and 50 microM with no change in polysynaptic activity. When the concentration was raised to between 100 and 300 microM, however, the convulsants all reduced the monosynaptic reflex, thus producing a biphasic dose-response relationship. The nonconvulsant barbiturates phenobarbital, 5-ethyl-5-(3-methylbut-1'-enyl) barbituric acid (3M1B), amylobarbital (3MB) and (-)-5-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-5-ethyl barbituric acid [(-)DMBB] produced only a decrease in mono- and polysynaptic reflexes. At concentrations which enhanced the monosynaptic reflex, the responses of motoneurones to glycine and eledoisin-related peptide (an analogue of substance P) were reduced by (+)DMBB, while 1,3M1B and 3M2B had no significant effects upon any of the neurotransmitters tested. At concentrations which depressed the monosynaptic reflex, the convulsants all reduced the response to glycine whereas the nonconvulsant barbiturates all increased the response to GABA. With the exception of phenobarbital, both convulsant and nonconvulsant barbiturates produced a direct depolarisation of the presynaptic terminal membrane, with only the convulsants producing a depolarisation of the membrane of the motoneurone. Using another convulsant barbiturate, 5-(2-cyclohexylideneethyl)-5-ethyl barbituric acid (CHEB), this direct depolarising action was found to be calcium-dependent.
OBJECTIVE: Screening colonoscopy has been shown to reduce mortality and cancer stage in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) individuals. However, the benefit of screening in intermediate risk groups is unknown. The most recent national guidelines have recommended a reduction of screening frequency for the intermediate risk group. Therefore, this study aims to compare the results of colonoscopic screening in HNPCC and intermediate risk groups and assess the effect of the most recent screening protocol recommendations. METHOD: A total of 244 individuals; 108 from HNPCC families (28 mismatch repair gene carriers) and 136 from intermediate risk families were referred for regular colonoscopic screening by the Regional Genetics Service. Findings from 417 colonoscopies performed between 1992 and 2003 were evaluated. RESULTS: A total of three cancers, 39 adenomas and 41 hyperplastic polyps were found in the HNPCC group compared with one cancer, 22 adenomas and 19 hyperplasic polyps in the intermediate risk group. If the recent screening guidelines for the intermediate group were applied, then 89 (44%) fewer colonoscopies would have been performed. Although no cancers would have been missed, six adenomas (mean size = 5.7 mm, range 2-10 mm) with two graded as severely dysplasic and six hyperplastic polyps would not have been detected. CONCLUSION: The detection rate and distribution of adenomas were similar in both groups. If the new colonoscopic screening recommendations for the intermediate risk group had been applied, a small number of significant lesions would have been missed.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing-based ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (rDNA) typing technique for rapid and sensitive diagnosis of fungal keratitis. DESIGN: Laboratory investigation. METHODS: The present study included culture-based methods along with PCR and ITS2/5.8S rDNA sequencing to evaluate fungal infections in 32 corneal scrapings from patients with suspected mycotic keratitis. RESULTS: Good correlation was found between the culture and PCR rDNA sequencing-based methods. We also identified fungal strains that were noncultivable in routine culture medium and fungal strains, which have been reported scarcely in previous reports from eastern Indian studies. CONCLUSIONS: The PCR and rDNA sequencing-based approaches may be useful alternatives to culture-based techniques for the rapid and sensitive diagnosis of fungal keratitis. We found that clinically significant pathogenic fungal strains can be detected and differentiated by this method in a short period. This method therefore is useful for the early treatment of fungal infection.
PURPOSE: To evaluate whether cytomegalovirus resistant to ganciclovir, detected in either the blood or urine, correlates with adverse ocular outcomes. DESIGN: Prospective cohort study. METHODS: Patients with cytomegalovirus and AIDS were enrolled in a study of the occurrence and clinical correlates of resistant cytomegalovirus. Blood and urine cultures for cytomegalovirus were performed at the time of diagnosis of retinitis, 1 and 3 months after the initiation of therapy, and every 3 months thereafter. Patients were seen monthly, at which time fundus photographs were obtained and forwarded to the Fundus Photograph Reading Center for evaluation of retinitis progression (movement of a border of a cytomegalovirus lesion > or = 750 microm, or the occurrence of a new lesion > or = 0.25 disk area in size) and the amount of retinal area affected by cytomegalovirus retinitis. Visual acuity was measured using logarithmic visual acuity charts. Phenotypic resistance to ganciclovir was defined as an IC50 > 6.0 micromol/l, and genotypic resistance to ganciclovir was defined as the occurrence of a cytomegalovirus UL97 gene mutation known to confer ganciclovir resistance. Time-dependent analyses were performed and included viral resistance, highly active antiretroviral therapy, and treatment variables as predictors of clinical outcomes. RESULTS: One hundred ninety-seven patients received ganciclovir therapy. Nineteen patients developed phenotypic resistance to ganciclovir, and 18 developed genotypic resistance. The detection of cytomegalovirus resistant to ganciclovir was associated with a 4.17- to 5.61-fold increase in the odds of retinitis progression (P values all < or = .0002), depending upon the definition of resistance and the culture sources analyzed. Resistance was associated with a greater increase in retinal area involved by cytomegalovirus by 3-month interval (1.10% vs 0.05% to 0.10%), which was significant for phenotypic resistance and for genotypic resistance in the blood or urine (P =.012 to.021). There was a suggestion that resistance was associated with a greater loss of visual acuity (P =.009 to.096). Highly active antiretroviral therapy was associated with an approximate 50% reduction in the odds of retinitis progression, and the ganciclovir implant was associated with an approximate 60% reduction. CONCLUSIONS: The detection of cytomegalovirus resistant to ganciclovir in either the blood or urine of a patient with cytomegalovirus retinitis is associated with an increased risk of adverse ocular outcomes.
A number of murine T cell lymphomas expressing the T cell Ag Thy-1 contain acquired mouse mammary tumor (MMTV) proviruses. These lymphomas all express detectable levels of MMTV RNA, yet the majority of the tumors fail to produce MMTV particles. To determine if the ability of lymphomas to produce MMTV is a reflection of the differentiation state of the tumor, we examined eight lymphomas for expression of surface B and T cell Ag as well as for rearrangements and expression of TCR genes. All tumors could be grouped into three categories observed in vivo, including early lymphoid, nonmature intrathymic T cells, and immature intrathymic T cells. Cell lines corresponding to all three phenotypes produced MMTV particles, suggesting that production of virus is not linked to the differentiation state of lymphoid cells. These studies highlight the potential advantage of studying T cell lymphomas vs mixed primary populations or T cell hybridomas for evaluation of both phenotypic and molecular markers in clonal T cells.
Philophthalmosis is a zoonotic disease associated largely with the spread of the invasive freshwater snail Melanoides tuberculata, serving as an intermediate host. Here we examined Philophthalmus gralli focal fenced infection site reported recently as being associated with Tinamus major and M. tuberculata in Alajuela, Costa Rica. Removal of the definitive hosts allowed us to address also the long-term survival strategy of the parasite. Initially, the snail intermediate hosts displayed high prevalence of P. gralli infection across all its age cohorts. Two years following the removal of definitive hosts, the infection rate decreased by one order of magnitude, while the snails aging less than one year displayed zero infection prevalence. Additionally, phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial (ND1) and nuclear (ITS1, ITS2) DNA loci revealed negligible intrasite DNA variability of the specimens obtained at the study site in Costa Rica (but not of those obtained earlier in Peru or New Zealand), supporting strongly the hypothesis on focal origin of the infection. The observed dynamics of infection suggests the explanation for the high variability in P. gralli prevalence in intermediate hosts experienced worldwide. We noticed that the reports claiming >20% prevalence of M. tuberculata infection by P. gralli originated exclusively from foci with known eye infection of the definitive hosts, while the P. gralli infection penetrance <2% is typically associated with sites, where the infection of definitive hosts was not observed, suggesting that the infected definitive hosts were present onsite only in the past, or were present only at a site upstream or downstream of the respective sampling site. Thus, this is the first evidence on the possible persistence of eye-trematode infection site for over two years following the last confirmed outbreak in its adult hosts.
Despite rapidly increasing intervention, functional disability due to chronic low back pain (cLBP) has increased in recent decades. We often cannot identify mechanisms to explain the major negative impact cLBP has on patients' lives. Such cLBP is often termed nonspecific and may be due to multiple biologic and behavioral etiologies. Researchers use varied inclusion criteria, definitions, baseline assessments, and outcome measures, which impede comparisons and consensus. Therefore, NIH Pain Consortium charged a research task force to draft standards for research on cLBP. The resulting multidisciplinary panel recommended using 2 questions to define cLBP; classifying cLBP by its impact (defined by pain intensity, pain interference, and physical function); use of a minimum data set to describe research participants (drawing heavily on the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System methodology); reporting "responder analyses" in addition to mean outcome scores; and suggestions for future research and dissemination. The Pain Consortium has approved the recommendations, which investigators should incorporate into NIH grant proposals. The research task force believes that these recommendations will advance the field, help resolve controversies, and facilitate future research addressing the genomic, neurological, and other mechanistic substrates of cLBP. We expect that the research task force recommendations will become a dynamic document and undergo continual improvement. PERSPECTIVE: A task force was convened by the NIH Pain Consortium with the goal of developing research standards for cLBP. The results included recommendations for definitions, a minimum data set, reporting outcomes, and future research. Greater consistency in reporting should facilitate comparisons among studies and the development of phenotypes.
Controlling the degradation process of silk is an important and interesting subject in the field of biomaterials. In the present study, silk fibroin films with different secondary conformations and nanostructures were used to study degradation behavior in buffered protease XIV solution. Different from previous studies, silk fibroin films with highest beta-sheet content achieved the highest degradation rate in our research. A new degradation mechanism revealed that degradation behavior of silk fibroin was related to not only crystal content but also hydrophilic interaction and then crystal-noncrystal alternate nanostructures. First, hydrophilic blocks of silk fibroin were degraded. Then, hydrophobic crystal blocks that were formerly surrounded and immobilized by hydrophilic blocks became free particles and moved into solution. Therefore, on the basis of the mechanism, which enables the process to be more controllable and flexible, controlling the degradation behavior of silk fibroin without affecting other performances such as its mechanical or hydrophilic properties becomes feasible, and this would greatly expand the applications of silk as a biomedical material.
Mosquito distribution in the immigration bird-nested area, Pathumthani province, was investigated from August to December in 2006. Mosquitoes were collected by using CO2-baited Centers for Disease Control light traps in which dry ice was used as a source of CO2 to attract mosquitoes. Six traps were operated from 4 p.m. until 7 a.m. on each study day. Four genera, which were Anopheles, Armigeres, Culex, and Mansonia with 14 species of mosquitoes were collected. Culex gelidus (13.94-59.41%) and Culex tritaeniorhynchus (32.87-70.30%) were most collected species in this area for every month. Other two species with moderate distribution in this area were Anopheles barbirostris (0.76-3.30%) and Mansonia uniformis (1.55-11.36%). Polymerase Chain Reactions were performed for testing Wolbachia infection in Cx. gelidus and Cx. tritaeniorhynchus only. Fifty-four percent (15/28 pools) of Cx. gelidus and none (0/20 pools) of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus were positive for Wolbachia infection. Wolbachia infection in other mosquito species collected in this and other areas need to be investigated to understand species and geographic variation of Wolbachia infection in mosquitoes in nature.
BACKGROUND: Microeukaryotes are an effective indicator of the presence of environmental contaminants. However, the characterisation of these organisms by conventional tools is often inefficient, and recent molecular studies have revealed a great diversity of microeukaryotes. The full extent of this diversity is unknown, and therefore, the distribution, ecological role and responses to anthropogenic effects of microeukaryotes are rather obscure. The majority of oil from oceanic oil spills (e.g., the May 2010 accident in the Gulf of Mexico) converges on coastal ecosystems such as mangroves, which are threatened with worldwide disappearance, highlighting the need for efficient tools to indicate the presence of oil in these environments. However, no studies have used molecular methods to assess the effects of oil contamination in mangrove sediment on microeukaryotes as a group. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We evaluated the population dynamics and the prevailing 18S rDNA phylotypes of microeukaryotes in mangrove sediment microcosms with and without oil contamination, using PCR/DGGE and clone libraries. We found that microeukaryotes are useful for monitoring oil contamination in mangroves. Our clone library analysis revealed a decrease in both diversity and species richness after contamination. The phylogenetic group that showed the greatest sensitivity to oil was the Nematoda. After contamination, a large increase in the abundance of the groups Bacillariophyta (diatoms) and Biosoecida was detected. The oil-contaminated samples were almost entirely dominated by organisms related to Bacillariophyta sp. and Cafeteria minima, which indicates that these groups are possible targets for biomonitoring oil in mangroves. The DGGE fingerprints also indicated shifts in microeukaryote profiles; specific band sequencing indicated the appearance of Bacillariophyta sp. only in contaminated samples and Nematoda only in non-contaminated sediment. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We believe that the microeukaryotic targets indicated by our work will be of great applicability in biomonitoring hydrocarbons in mangroves under oil contamination risk or during recovery strategies.
Mangiferin has been shown to have the effect of improving dyslipidemia. Plasma free fatty acids (FFA) are closely associated with blood lipid metabolism as well as many diseases including metabolic syndrome. This study is to investigate whether mangiferin has effects on FFA metabolism in hyperlipidemic rats. Wistar rats were fed a high-fat diet and administered mangiferin simultaneously for 6 weeks. Mangiferin (50, 100, 150 mg/kg BW) decreased dose-dependently FFA and triglycerides (TG) levels in plasma, and their accumulations in liver, but increased the beta-hydroxybutyrate levels in both plasma and liver of hyperlipidemic rats. HepG2 cells were treated with oleic acid (OA, 0.2 mmol/L) to simulate the condition of high level of plasma FFA in vitro, and were treated with different concentrations of mangiferin simultaneously for 24 h. We found that mangiferin significantly increased FFA uptake, significantly decreased intracellular FFA and TG accumulations in HepG2 cells. Mangiferin significantly increased AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and its downstream proteins involved in fatty acid translocase (CD36) and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (CPT1), but significantly decreased acyl-CoA: diacylgycerol acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2) expression and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) activity by increasing its phosphorylation level in both in vivo and in vitro studies. Furthermore, these effects were reversed by Compound C, an AMPK inhibitor in HepG2 cells. For upstream of AMPK, mangiferin increased AMP/ATP ratio, but had no effect on LKB1 phosphorylation. In conclusion, mangiferin decreased plasma FFA levels through promoting FFA uptake and oxidation, inhibiting FFA and TG accumulations by regulating the key enzymes expression in liver through AMPK pathway. Therefore, mangiferin is a possible beneficial natural compound for metabolic syndrome by improving FFA metabolism.
De novo interstitial 16q deletion diagnosed in utero has not previously been reported. We present a case of fetal de novo interstitial 16q deletion associated with the sonographic findings of prominent coronal sutures, a prominent frontal bone, and shortening of the long bones. Genetic amniocentesis at 23 weeks' gestation revealed a de novo deletion of 16q13-q22. At birth, the fetus manifested a dysmorphic phenotype correlated with monosomy 16q syndrome. Linkage analysis of the family confirmed the maternal origin and the extent of the deletion. We suggest that prenatal detection of a prominent frontal bone with prominent cranial sutures and shortening of the long bones should prompt cytogenetic analysis looking for a deletion in the long arm of chromosome 16.
The B lymphocyte-associated adaptor protein 32 kD in size (Bam32) is expressed at high levels in germinal center (GC) B cells. It has an NH(2)-terminal src homology 2 (SH2) domain which binds phospholipase C (PLC)gamma 2, and a COOH-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Thus, Bam32 may function to integrate protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathways in B cells. To further define the role Bam32 plays in B cells, we generated Bam32-deficient DT40 cells. These Bam32(-/-) cells exhibited lower levels of B cell antigen receptor (BCR)-induced calcium mobilization with modest decreases in tyrosine phosphorylation of phospholipase C (PLC)gamma 2. Moreover, BCR-induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), c-jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways was impaired in Bam32(-/-) cells but not the activation of Akt-related pathways. Activation of downstream transcription factors such as nuclear factor of activated T cells (NF-AT) and nuclear factor of kappa binding (NF-kappa B) was also impaired in Bam32(-/-) cells. Furthermore, Bam32(-/-) cells were more susceptible to BCR-induced death. Taken together, these findings suggest that Bam32 functions to regulate BCR-induced signaling and cell survival most likely in germinal centers.
Silver pyrazolates [[3-(CF3)Pz]Ag]3, [[3-(CF3),5-(CH3)Pz]Ag]3, [[3-(CF3),5-(Ph)Pz]Ag]3, [[3-(CF3),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3, and [[3-(C3F7),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3 have been synthesized by treatment of the corresponding pyrazole with a slight molar excess of silver(I) oxide. This economical and convenient route gives silver pyrazolates in high (>80%) yields. X-ray crystal structures of [[3-(CF3),5-(CH3)Pz]Ag]3, [[3-(CF3),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3, and [[3-(C3F7),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3 show that these molecules have trinuclear structures with essentially planar to highly distorted Ag3N6 metallacycles. [[3-(CF3),5-(CH3)Pz]Ag]3 forms extended columns via intertrimer argentophilic contacts (the closest Ag...Ag separation between the neighboring trimers are 3.355 and 3.426 A). The trinuclear [[3-(CF3),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3 units crystallize in pairs, basically forming "dimers of trimers", with the six silver atom core of the adjacent trimers adopting a chair conformation. However, in these dimers of trimers, even the shortest intertrimer Ag...Ag distance (3.480 A) is slightly longer than the van der Waals contact of silver (3.44 A). [[3-(C3F7),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3, which has two bulky groups on each pyrazolyl ring, shows no close intertrimer Ag...Ag contacts (closest intertrimer Ag...Ag distance = 5.376 A). The Ag-N bond distances and the intratrimer Ag...Ag separations of the silver pyrazolates do not show much variation. However, their N-Ag-N angles are sensitive to the nature (especially, the size) of substituents on the pyrazolyl rings. The pi-acidic [[3,5-(CF3)2Pz]Ag]3 and [[3-(C3F7),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3 form adducts with the pi-base toluene. X-ray data show that they adopt extended columnar structures of the type [[Ag3]2.[toluene]]infinity and [[Ag3]'.[toluene]]infinity ([[3,5-(CF3)2Pz]Ag]3 = [Ag3],[[3-(C3F7),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3 = [Ag3]'), in which toluene interleaves and makes face-to-face contacts with [[3-(C3F7),5-(But)Pz]Ag]3 or dimers of [[3,5-(CF3)2Pz]Ag]3.
The immune response to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection has fascinated and frustrated investigators for decades. After adverse responses to early attempts at vaccination, it became popularly held that disease following infection was related to overly aggressive immune responses. However, recent data illustrate that severe forms of disease are related to inadequate, rather than hyperresponsive, adaptive immune reactions. Thus, recovery from primary (and perhaps later) RSV infection is dependent on the quality of innate immune responses. These findings should have enormous significance to the development of vaccines and antiviral compounds.
Dipeptidyl peptidase III, a metallopeptidase of the M49 family, was first identified (in the pituitary) by its specific cleavage of diarginyl arylamides, which have been used as preferred assay substrates until now. Here we examined the activity of the yeast and human dipeptidyl peptidase III in parallel. The human enzyme preferred Arg(2)-beta-naphthylamide and showed 620-fold higher k(cat)/K(m) for this substrate. In contrast, the yeast enzyme did not display a preference for any of the X-Arg-beta-naphthylamide analyzed. The replacement of Gly(505) with Asp, resulted in a less active, but more selective, yeast enzyme form. These results indicate diversity in cleavage specificity in the M49 family.
Ankyrin polypeptides are critical for normal membrane protein expression in diverse cell types, including neurons, myocytes, epithelia, and erythrocytes. Ankyrin dysfunction results in defects in membrane expression of ankyrin-binding partners (including ion channels, transporters, and cell adhesion molecules), resulting in aberrant cellular function and disease. Here, we identify a new role for ankyrin-B in cardiac cell biology. We demonstrate that cardiac sarcolemmal K(ATP) channels directly associate with ankyrin-B in heart via the K(ATP) channel alpha-subunit Kir6.2. We demonstrate that primary myocytes lacking ankyrin-B display defects in Kir6.2 protein expression, membrane expression, and function. Moreover, we demonstrate a secondary role for ankyrin-B in regulating K(ATP) channel gating. Finally, we demonstrate that ankyrin-B forms a membrane complex with K(ATP) channels and the cardiac Na/K-ATPase, a second key membrane transporter involved in the cardiac ischemia response. Collectively, our new findings define a new role for cardiac ankyrin polypeptides in regulation of ion channel membrane expression in heart.
BACKGROUND: Dietary changes characterized by a reduction in carbohydrate quality are occurring in developing countries and may be associated with a higher prevalence of obesity and chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus. We assessed the preferences and acceptability of unrefined whole grain carbohydrate staples (i.e., brown rice, unrefined maize and unrefined sorghum ugali) as substitutes for commonly consumed refined carbohydrates in Tanzania. METHODS: A questionnaire was used to collect sociodemographic information and dietary habits, and pre-and post-tasting questionnaires were administered for test foods. A 10-point LIKERT scale was used to rate attributes of the three test foods. RESULTS: White rice and refined maize ugali were the most commonly consumed carbohydrate staples in this population; 98% and 91%, respectively. Occasional consumption of unrefined maize and sorghum ugali was reported by 32% and 23% of the participants, respectively. All of the test foods were highly rated for smell, taste, color, appearance and texture. Taste was rated highest for unrefined maize ugali. Almost all of the participants were willing to participate in a future dietary intervention involving regular consumption of these unrefined carbohydrates for at least six months duration. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that whole grain carbohydrates are highly acceptable, and that there is a promising potential for their use in future dietary intervention studies in Tanzania.
The influence of acute and long-term piracetam administration on the dynamics of rapid (non-specific, anxiolytic) and slow (specific, nootropic) behavioral drug effects, as well as on their interrelation with NMDA- and BDZ-receptors was studied in inbred mice strains differing in cognitive and emotional status--C57BL/6 and BALB/c. The BALB/c strain contained 17% less [3H]-flunitrazepam binding sites in frontal cortex and 22% less [3H]-MK801 binding sites in hippocampus as compared to those in C57BL/6 mice. Based on these data, BALB/c strain was used as a model of psychopathology, combining increased anxiety and cognitive deficit. Under the action of single, 7-fold, and 14-fold piracetam i.p. injections (200 mg/kg body weight, daily), a fast increase in NMDA-receptor density and slow escalation of the specific nootropic effect was observed in BALB/c mice. Non-specific anxiolytic effects in these mice increased for the first 1 - 7 days without any changes in BDZ-binding and then decreased to initial values accompanied by decrement of brain receptor concentration. Thus, in BALB/c mice, a slowly manifested specific nootropic action of piracetam develops, following an increase in NMDA receptor density, whereas the non-specific anxiolytic effect precedes the fast-paced changes in BDZ-binding site density.
INTRODUCTION: Prognosis of patients with operable laryngeal cancer is highly variable and therefore potent prognostic biomarkers are warranted. The insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGFR) signaling pathway plays a critical role in laryngeal carcinogenesis and progression. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We identified all patients with localized TNM stage I-III laryngeal cancer managed with potentially curative surgery between 1985 and 2008. Immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of IGF1R-alpha, IGF1R-beta and IGF2R was evaluated using the immunoreactive score (IRS) and mRNA levels of important effectors of the IGFR pathway were assessed, including IGF1R, IGF-binding protein 3 (IGFBP3), suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 (SOCS2) and members of the MAP-kinase (MAP2K1, MAPK9) and phosphatidyl-inositol-3 kinase (PIK3CA, PIK3R1) families. Cox-regression models were applied to assess the predictive value of biomarkers on disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS). RESULTS: Among 289 eligible patients, 95.2% were current or ex smokers, 75.4% were alcohol abusers, 15.6% had node-positive disease and 32.2% had received post-operative irradiation. After a median follow-up of 74.5 months, median DFS was 94.5 months and median OS was 106.3 months. Using the median IRS as the pre-defined cut-off, patients whose tumors had increased IGF1R-alpha cytoplasm or membrane expression experienced marginally shorter DFS and significantly shorter OS compared to those whose tumors had low IGF1R-alpha expression (91.1 vs 106.2 months, p = 0.0538 and 100.3 vs 118.6 months, p = 0.0157, respectively). Increased mRNA levels of MAPK9 were associated with prolonged DFS (p = 0.0655) and OS (p = 0.0344). In multivariate analysis, IGF1R-alpha overexpression was associated with a 46.6% increase in the probability for relapse (p = 0.0374). Independent predictors for poor OS included node-positive disease (HR = 2.569, p<0.0001), subglottic/transglottic localization (HR = 1.756, p = 0.0438) and IGF1R-alpha protein overexpression (HR = 1.475, p = 0.0504). CONCLUSION: IGF1R-alpha protein overexpression may serve as an independent predictor of relapse and survival in operable laryngeal cancer. Prospective evaluation of the IGF1R-alpha prognostic utility is warranted.
Transition metal-transporting P1B-type CPx ATPases play crucial roles in mediating metal homeostasis and resistance in all cells. The degree to which N-terminal metal binding domains (MBDs) confer metal specificity to the transporter is unclear. We show that the two MBDs of the Zn/Cd/Pb effluxing pump Anabaena AztA are functionally nonequivalent, but only with respect to zinc resistance. Inactivation of the a-MBD largely abrogates resistance to high intracellular Zn(II) levels, whereas inactivation of the b-MBD is not as deleterious. In contrast, inactivation of either the a- or b-MBD has little measurable impact on Cd(II) and Pb(II) resistance. The membrane proximal b-MBD binds Zn(II) with a higher affinity than the distal N-terminal a-MBD. Facile Zn(II)-specific intermolecular transfer from the a-MBD to the higher-affinity b-MBD is readily observed by 1H-15N HSQC spectroscopy. Unlike Zn(II), Cd(II) and Pb(II) form saturated 1:1 S4 or S3(O/N) complexes with AztAaHbH, where a single metal ion bridges the two MBDs. We propose that the tandem MBDs enhance Zn(II)-specific transport, while stabilizing a non-native inter-MBD Cd/Pb cross-linked structure that is a poor substrate and/or regulator for the transporter.
Patt1 is a newly identified protein acetyltransferase that is highly expressed in liver. However, the role of Patt1 in liver is still unclear. We generated Patt1 liver-specific knockout (LKO) mice and mainly measured the effect of hepatic Patt1 deficiency on lipid metabolism. Hepatic Patt1 deficiency in male mice markedly decreases fat mass and dramatically alleviates age-associated accumulation of lipid droplets in liver. Moreover, hepatic Patt1 abrogation in male mice significantly reduces the liver triglyceride and free fatty acid levels, but it has no effect on liver cholesterol level, liver weight, and liver function. Consistently, primary cultured Patt1-deficient hepatocytes are resistant to palmitic acid-induced lipid accumulation, but hepatic Patt1 deficiency fails to protect male mice from high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis. Further studies show that hepatic Patt1 deficiency decreases fatty acid uptake, reduces lipid synthesis, and enhances fatty acid oxidation, which may contribute to the attenuated hepatic steatosis in Patt1 LKO mice. These results demonstrate that Patt1 plays an important role in hepatic lipid metabolism and have implications toward resolving age-associated hepatic steatosis.
OBJECTIVE To compare contraceptive services provided by family planning clinics in Linkoping and Norrkoping in Ostergotland County, Sweden. The two cities are of similar size but have different socio-demographic profiles. The abortion rate in Linkoping (15.3 per 1000) is substantially lower than in Norrkoping (21.1 per 1000). METHODS The study was performed in two steps. First, the clinics providing contraceptive services in the two cities were studied using ten pre-defined quality indicators. Thereafter, 11 healthcare providers were interviewed: six in Linkoping and five in Norrkoping. The interviews were analysed using qualitative content analysis. RESULTS No differences were found in the organisation of contraceptive care in the two cities. Neither city met the criteria for five of the ten quality indicators. The analysis of the interviews generated four themes: 'Guidelines and electronic record template', 'Criteria for good contraceptive counselling', 'Availability of contraception', and 'Sexual health'. The interviews revealed that the clinical leadership in Norrkoping was insufficient. CONCLUSION Clinics in the two cities are organised in the same way so that differences in abortion rates cannot be related to differences in organisation. The reasons for the differences in abortion rates in the two cities have yet to be determined.
The nematode cuticle is a protective collagenous extracellular matrix that is modified, cross-linked, and processed by a number of key enzymes. This Ecdysozoan-specific structure is synthesized repeatedly and allows growth and development in a linked degradative and biosynthetic process known as molting. A targeted RNA interference screen using a cuticle collagen marker has been employed to identify components of the cuticle biosynthetic pathway. We have characterized an essential peroxidase, MoLT-7 (MLT-7), that is responsible for proper cuticle molting and re-synthesis. MLT-7 is an active, inhibitable peroxidase that is expressed in the cuticle-synthesizing hypodermis coincident with each larval molt. mlt-7 mutants show a range of body morphology defects, most notably molt, dumpy, and early larval stage arrest phenotypes that can all be complemented with a wild type copy of mlt-7. The cuticles of these mutants lacks di-tyrosine cross-links, becomes permeable to dye and accessible to tyrosine iodination, and have aberrant collagen protein expression patterns. Overexpression of MLT-7 causes mutant phenotypes further supporting its proposed enzymatic role. In combination with BLI-3, an H2O2-generating NADPH dual oxidase, MLT-7 is essential for post-embryonic development. Disruption of mlt-7, and particularly bli-3, via RNA interference also causes dramatic changes to the in vivo cross-linking patterns of the cuticle collagens DPY-13 and COL-12. This points toward a functionally cooperative relationship for these two hypodermally expressed proteins that is essential for collagen cross-linking and proper extracellular matrix formation.
Acral lentiginous melanoma affecting the nail is uncommon but carries a poor prognosis due to difficulties in early diagnosis. The gold standard of treatment for subungual melanoma is biopsy followed by wide local excision in form of amputation of the distal phalanx of the digit, in order to achieve at least 10 mm margin of clearance or by fixed tissue micrographic (Mohs') surgery. Here, we demonstrate a non-amputative approach for the excision of subungual melanoma in situ of the right great toe, involving removal of the nail unit with a layer of underlying bone before reconstruction with full thickness skin graft. This technique allows adequate excision margins to ensure full clearance of the lesion with satisfactory preservation of function.
The clinical and morphological findings of 53 chondroblastomas in the files of the Bone Tumour Registry of Westphalia are presented. The mean age of all patients was 19.2 years. The male-to-female ratio was 1.5:1. Forty-two of the tumours (79.8%) were located in the long tubular bones and short tubular bones of the hands and were closely related to the growth plate. Six cases (11.3%) were found in the flat bones, 4 cases (7.5%) in the tarsal bones and 1 case (1.9%) in the craniofacial bones. The characteristic radiological feature of 44 investigated lesions was a mostly eccentric radiolucency with a geographic pattern of bone destruction and matrix calcifications. Periosteal reaction was evident in 9% of the cases. Most tumours demonstrate the typical morphological features of chondroblastoma, but 3 cases resembled a giant cell tumour. In 2 cases a haemangiopericytoma-like growth pattern was observed. Nine of the tumours had an aneurysmal bone cyst-like component. Vascular invasion was seen in 1 case. Immunohistochemically most cells in 30 of the cases and fetal chondroblasts in 3 cases were strongly positive with vimentin and S-100 protein. Collagen type II was positive in the chondroid matrix of the tumours and in fetal cartilage tissue; collagen type VI was present focally around individual tumour cells and was always seen in the chondroid matrix of the lesions and in fetal cartilage. These findings support the cartilaginous nature of these tumours. In paraffin sections, 46.6% of the cases revealed a distinct positive reaction of some tumour cells with the monoclonal cytokeratin antibody KL1 (molecular weight 55-57 kDa). Only 4 of them demonstrated a coexpression with the other monoclonal cytokeratin antibody CK (clone MNF 116, molecular weight 45-56.5 kDa). In paraffin sections all fetal chondroblasts were negative with both cytokeratin antibodies. Frozen sections of 3 tumours showed a strong positive reaction with both cytokeratin antibodies in many chondroblasts, indicating an "aberrant" cytokeratin expression. Osteoclast-like giant cells stained positive with leucocyte-common antigen (LCA) and with the macrophage-associated antibody KP1, but were negative with the other macrophage-associated antibody MAC 387. Recurrence rate was 10.7%. The clinical course of all tumours was benign.
BACKGROUND: Intravascular lymphoma is a rare subtype of extranodal lymphoma. Most instances of the disease are of B-cell lineage. Diagnosis is difficult because of its nonspecific clinical signs, and many cases are diagnosed at autopsy. Uterine involvement is rare, and it is commonly manifested as genital bleeding. In this case, the chief complaint was fever, which is also very rare. CASE REPORT: A 62-year-old woman presented with fever of unknown origin. Computed tomography revealed no localized lesion except for swelling of the right internal iliac nodes. A cytologic smear of the endometrium by liquid-based cytology demonstrated malignant cells. Based on the curettage material, the lesion was diagnosed as an undifferentiated malignant tumor. Total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and pelvic/paraaortic lymphadenectomy revealed widely scattered lymphoma cells of B-cell lineage mainly in the vascular lumina of the uterus, right ovary and lymph nodes. CONCLUSION: The final histologic type was established on the basis of the surgical material of hysterectomy. Diagnosis was difficult because of prominent cellular atypia and rare location of the tumor. Immunocytochemical examination of liquid-based samples can lead to a correct diagnosis of malignant lymphoma, even at the stage of endometrial cytologic examination.
We used the model of faecal microflora under continuous flow culture (CFC) conditions to study the growth of Candida albicans in mixed cultures. The development of Candida is usually limited by the high germ counts of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Candida growth in faecal flora could be obtained neither by the continuous inflow of C. albicans CFC monocultures nor by intermittent input of highly concentrated suspensions of C. albicans into the system. If the system was run under aerobic conditions development of C. albicans could be observed. After some days, however, the faecal flora again suppressed further development of the yeasts. Only marked destruction of the aerobic and anaerobic microflora by antibiotics resulted in growth or overgrowth of Candida albicans.
Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a transcription factor that controls the basal and inducible expression of a battery of antioxidant genes and other cytoprotective Phase II detoxifying enzymes. Nrf2 is ubiquitously expressed in the cardiovascular system. While several Nrf2 downstream genes have been implicated in protection against the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases, the precise role of Nrf2 in the cardiovascular system remains to be elucidated. Nevertheless, mounting evidence has revealed that Nrf2 is a critical regulator of cardiovascular homeostasis via the suppression of oxidative stress, a major causative factor for the development and progression of cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, Nrf2 promises to be an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. Herein, we review the current literature that suggests that Nrf2 is a valuable therapeutic target for cardiovascular disease, as well as experiments that illustrate the mechanisms of Nrf2 cardioprotection.
Meta-analyses combining gene expression microarray experiments offer new insights into the molecular pathophysiology of disease not evident from individual experiments. Although the established technical reproducibility of microarrays serves as a basis for meta-analysis, pathophysiological reproducibility across experiments is not well established. In this study, we carried out a large-scale analysis of disease-associated experiments obtained from NCBI GEO, and evaluated their concordance across a broad range of diseases and tissue types. On evaluating 429 experiments, representing 238 diseases and 122 tissues from 8435 microarrays, we find evidence for a general, pathophysiological concordance between experiments measuring the same disease condition. Furthermore, we find that the molecular signature of disease across tissues is overall more prominent than the signature of tissue expression across diseases. The results offer new insight into the quality of public microarray data using pathophysiological metrics, and support new directions in meta-analysis that include characterization of the commonalities of disease irrespective of tissue, as well as the creation of multi-tissue systems models of disease pathology using public data.
BACKGROUND: Renin is a key protein of the renin-angiotensin system involved in the physiological control of blood pressure; the renin gene is therefore a candidate for essential hypertension in humans. We tested the association between polymorphisms and haplotypes of the renin gene and the risk of hypertension and blood pressure levels in two Spanish populations. METHODS: Two population-based studies from different regions of Spain were performed. Study A included 1502 individuals (748 women) 40-70 years old, and Study B included 670 women 45-70 years old. Fourteen polymorphisms of the renin gene were selected based on position, spacing, heterozygosity (> 10% for the minor allele frequency) and previous information, and were assessed by SNPlex. RESULTS: Genotype GG of the rs5707 polymorphism was significantly associated with blood pressure levels (P = 0.005) and with the risk of having hypertension (odds ratio, 6.16; 95% confidence interval, 1.19-31.8) in women 40-70 years old from study A, but not the men. This association was also present in the women of study B (P < 0.001 for blood pressure values; odds ratio, 2.11 and 95% confidence interval, 1.07-4.17 for hypertension). Two haplotypes defined by five selected polymorphisms were associated with increased risk of hypertension in these aged women. CONCLUSION: Polymorphisms of the renin gene were associated with blood pressure levels and risk of hypertension in women over 40 years old. The interaction between the potential functional impact of this genetic background and the estrogen fall could explain the association in women of this age group.
The agouti-related protein (AgRP) is an orexigenic peptide that plays a significant role in the regulation of energy balance. It is expressed in the hypothalamus, the adrenal glands, and the testis, but sequences determining its spatial and temporal expression have not been identified. Using an elaborate in vitro screening approach, we show here that two adjacent enhancers inside the first intron of the neighboring (1.4 kb downstream) ATPase gene (ATP6V0D1) modulate the human AgRP promoter with profound spatiotemporal variation despite their diminutive sizes (221 and 231 nt). In transgenic mice, the proximal enhancer displayed specificity for the testis, tail, and ears, and the distal one for the testis, front feet, bone, heart, muscle, brain, spinal cord, and tongue, while dietary fat and overnight fasting had differential effects on enhancer activities. AgRP in the testis was localized to pachytene spermatocytes and in the tongue to epithelial cells. Comparative sequence analysis showed that the AgRP-ATP6V0D1 intergenic region is two times longer in humans than in mice and that the two enhancers are conserved in the rhesus monkey genome but not in the mouse genome. These data show that spatiotemporal expression of the human AgRP gene is influenced by diversified primate-specific intronic sequences in its neighboring ATP6V0D1 gene.
Cerebrospinal fluid-contacting (CSF-c) cells are found in all vertebrates, but their function remains elusive. In the lamprey spinal cord, they surround the central canal and some have processes passing the gray matter to the lateral edge of the flattened spinal cord. Stimulation of CSF-c cells at the central canal elicits GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in intraspinal stretch receptor neurons (edge cells). Here, we characterize laterally projecting CSF-c cells according to their morphology, phenotype, and neuronal properties by using immunohistochemistry, retrograde tracing, calcium imaging, and whole-cell recordings. We identify two types of CSF-c cells. Type 1 cells have a bulb-like ending that protrudes into the central canal and a lateral process that ramifies ventrolaterally and laterally with a dense plexus surrounding the mechanosensitive dendrites of the edge cells. Most type 1 cells fire spontaneous action potentials that are abolished by tetrodotoxin, and all display spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials and IPSPs that remain in the presence of tetrodotoxin. GABA and somatostatin are colocalized in type 1 cells, and they express both GABA and glutamate receptors. Type 2 cells, on the other hand, have a flat ending protruding into the central canal and a laterally projecting process that ramifies only at the lateral edge. These cells show immunoreactivity to taurine, but they do not express GABA or somatostatin, nor do they have any active neuronal properties. Type 2 cells might be a form of glia. Type 1 CSF-c cells are neurons and may play a modulatory role by influencing edge cells and thus the locomotor-related sensory feedback.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the influence of endovascular therapy of ruptured abdominal or iliac aneurysms on total mortality. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed the mortality of 40 patients from 2005 to 2009, when only surgical treatment was available. These results were compared with the period 2010 to 2013, when endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) was assessed as the first option in selected patients. RESULTS: During 2005 to 2009, the mortality was 37.5%. From 2010 to 2013, 45 patients were treated with mortality 28.9%. Open repair was performed in 35 (77.8%) patients and EVAR in 10 (22.2%) patients. The 30-day and 1-year mortality rates of the EVAR group were 0% and 20%, respectively, and the total mortality rate was 30% during follow-up (median 11 months, range 1-42 months). The 30-day mortality in the surgical group remained unchanged, at 37.1%, and 1-year and total mortality rates were 45.7% and 51.4%, respectively. CONCLUSION: Following integration in the treatment algorithm, EVAR decreased total mortality in our center by 8.6%.
Myosin I heavy chain kinase from Acanthamoeba castellanii is activated in vitro by autophosphorylation (8-10 mol of P per mol). The catalytically active C-terminal domain produced by trypsin cleavage of the phosphorylated kinase contains 2-3 mol of P per mol. However, the catalytic domain expressed in a baculovirus-insect cell system is fully active as isolated without autophosphorylation in vitro. We now show that the expressed catalytic domain is inactivated by incubation with acid phosphatase and regains activity upon autophosphorylation. The state of phosphorylation of all of the hydroxyamino acids in the catalytic domain were determined by mass spectrometry of unfractionated protease digests. Ser-627 was phosphorylated in the active, expressed catalytic domain, lost its phosphate when the protein was incubated with phosphatase, and was rephosphorylated when the dephosphorylated protein was incubated with ATP. No other residue was significantly phosphorylated in any of the three samples. Thus, phosphorylation of Ser-627, which is in the same position as the Ser and Thr residues that are phosphorylated in many other kinases, is necessary and sufficient for full activity of the catalytic domain. Ser-627 is also phosphorylated when full-length, native kinase is activated by autophosphorylation.
Blood samples from 40 adult patients with untreated acute leukaemia were processed through the Technicon H*1 blood autoanalyser which gives a complete white cell differential count using flow cytochemistry and provides white cell cytograms as well. We examined the differences in the percentage differential counts and the white cell cytograms of various FAB types of acute leukaemia in an attempt to estimate the usefulness of this easily obtainable data for the identification of acute leukaemias. Differentiation of the 33 acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) cases from the 7 acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) cases was possible on the basis of lymphocyte percentage (AML mean 29.6 vs. ALL mean 67.1, p < 0.01), monocyte percentage (AML mean 12.5 vs. ALL mean 3.3, p < 0.001), mean peroxidase activity value (AML mean -12.6 vs. ALL mean -0.6, p < 0.01) and the absence of IG flag (circulating immature granulocytes) in ALL. Interestingly, the FAB subtypes of AML could be distinguished from each other on the basis of characteristic patterns of cell distribution in the peroxidase cytogram when the total white cell count was over 10 x 10(9)/l. Even with lower counts the differences were distinctive providing that circulating blasts were present.
Swelling-activated K+ and Cl- channels, which mediate RVD, are found in most cell types. Prominent exceptions to this rule include red cells, which together with some types of epithelia, utilize electroneutral [K(+)-Cl-] cotransport for down-regulation of volume. Shrinkage-activated Na+/H+ exchange and [Na(+)-K(+)-2 Cl-] cotransport mediate RVI in many cell types, although the activation of these systems may require special conditions, such as previous RVD. Swelling-activated K+/H+ exchange and Ca2+/Na+ exchange seem to be restricted to certain species of red cells. Swelling-activated calcium channels, although not carrying sufficient ion flux to contribute to volume changes may play an important role in the activation of transport pathways. In this review of volume-activated ion transport pathways we have concentrated on regulatory phenomena. We have listed known secondary messenger pathways that modulate volume-activated transporters, although the evidence that volume signals are transduced via these systems is preliminary. We have focused on several mechanisms that might function as volume sensors. In our view, the most important candidates for this role are the structures which detect deformation or stretching of the membrane and the skeletal filaments attached to it, and the extraordinary effects that small changes in concentration of cytoplasmic macromolecules may exert on the activities of cytoplasmic and membrane enzymes (macromolecular crowding). It is noteworthy that volume-activated ion transporters are intercalated into the cellular signaling network as receptors, messengers and effectors. Stretch-activated ion channels may serve as receptors for cell volume itself. Cell swelling or shrinkage may serve a messenger function in the communication between opposing surfaces of epithelia, or in the regulation of metabolic pathways in the liver. Finally, these transporters may act as effector systems when they perform regulatory volume increase or decrease. This review discusses several examples in which relatively simple methods of examining volume regulation led to the discovery of transporters ultimately found to play key roles in the transmission of information within the cell. So, why volume? Because it's functionally important, it's relatively cheap (if you happened to have everything else, you only need some distilled water or concentrated salt solution), and since it involves many disciplines of experimental biology, it's fun to do.
The taxonomic classification of some parasitic isopods of the family Gnathiidae has been revised in the last years. However, their biological cycles have been described only partially or incompletely. Gnathia maxillaris (Montagu, 1804) is one of the most studied species, but certain aspects of its life cycle are still poorly known. A detailed study on the life cycle of G. maxillaris was carried out over several years by sampling larvae from an infestation of large volume aquaria at the Aquarium of Barcelona. At the same time, a system of in vitro cultivation of G. maxillaris was developed, which provided new data to complete the description of its life cycle. Periods of incubation, fertilization, planktonic stages, the attachment site on the fish host and biometric characteristics of larval forms were detailed. The new information may help better control health state of marine fish in aquaculture.
While astrocytes produce key inflammatory mediators following exposure to neurotropic nonsegmented negative-sense RNA viruses such as rabies virus and measles virus, the mechanisms by which resident central nervous system (CNS) cells perceive such viral challenges have not been defined. Recently, several cytosolic DExD/H box RNA helicases including retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) have been described that function as intracellular sensors of replicative RNA viruses. Here, we demonstrate that primary human astrocytes constitutively express RIG-I and show that such expression is elevated following exposure to a model neurotropic RNA virus, vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Evidence for the functional nature of RIG-I expression in these cells comes from the observation that this molecule associates with its downstream effector molecule, interferon promoter stimulator-1, following VSV infection and from the finding that a specific ligand for RIG-I elicits astrocyte immune responses. Importantly, RIG-I knockdown significantly reduces inflammatory cytokine production by VSV-infected astrocytes and inhibits the production of soluble neurotoxic mediators by these cells. These findings directly implicate RIG-I in the initiation of inflammatory immune responses by human glial cells and provide a potential mechanism underlying the neuronal cell death associated with acute viral CNS infections.
Seedling development including hypocotyl elongation is a critical phase in the plant life cycle. Light regulation of hypocotyl elongation is primarily mediated through the blue light photoreceptor cryptochrome and red/far-red light photoreceptor phytochrome signaling pathways, comprising regulators including COP1, HY5, and phytochrome-interacting factors (PIFs). The novel phytohormones, strigolactones, also participate in regulating hypocotyl growth. However, how strigolactone coordinates with light and photoreceptors in the regulation of hypocotyl elongation is largely unclear. Here, we demonstrate that strigolactone inhibition of hypocotyl elongation is dependent on cryptochrome and phytochrome signaling pathways. The photoreceptor mutants cry1 cry2, phyA, and phyB are hyposensitive to strigolactone analog GR24 under the respective monochromatic light conditions, while cop1 and pif1 pif3 pif4 pif5 (pifq) quadruple mutants are hypersensitive to GR24 in darkness. Genetic studies indicate that the enhanced responsiveness of cop1 to GR24 is dependent on HY5 and MAX2, while that of pifq is independent of HY5. Further studies demonstrate that GR24 constitutively up-regulates HY5 expression in the dark and light, whereas GR24-promoted HY5 protein accumulation is light- and cryptochrome and phytochrome photoreceptor-dependent. These results suggest that the light dependency of strigolactone regulation of hypocotyl elongation is likely mediated through MAX2-dependent promotion of HY5 expression, light-dependent accumulation of HY5, and PIF-regulated components.
Effects of density dependent as well as independent dispersal modes between a harvested patch and a protected area on the maximum sustainable yield and population abundance are studied. Without dispersal, the Gordon-Schaefer harvesting model predicts that as the protected area increases, population abundance increases too but the maximum sustainable yield (MSY) decreases. This article shows that dispersal can change this prediction. For density independent balanced and fast dispersal, neither the MSY, nor population abundance depends on the protected area. For fast and unbalanced dispersal both the MSY and equilibrium population abundance are unimodal functions of the protected area size. For density dependent dispersal which is in direction of increasing fitness predictions depend on whether individuals react to mortality risk in harvested patch. When animals disregard harvesting risk, the results are similar to the case of density independent and balanced dispersal. When animals do consider harvesting risk, the results are similar to the case without dispersal. The models considered also show that dispersal reduces beneficial effect of protected areas, because population abundance is smaller when compared with no dispersal case.
Dietary impacts on health may be one of the oldest concepts in medicine; however, only in recent years have technical advances in mass spectroscopy, gnotobiology, and bacterial sequencing enabled our understanding of human physiology to progress to the point where we can begin to understand how individual dietary components can affect specific illnesses. This review explores the current understanding of the complex interplay between dietary factors and the host microbiome, concentrating on the downstream implications on host immune function and the pathogenesis of disease. We discuss the influence of the gut microbiome on body habitus and explore the primary and secondary effects of diet on enteric microbial community structure. We address the impact of consumption of non-digestible polysaccharides (prebiotics and fiber), choline, carnitine, iron, and fats on host health as mediated by the enteric microbiome. Disease processes emphasized include non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, IBD, and cardiovascular disease/atherosclerosis. The concepts presented in this review have important clinical implications, although more work needs to be done to develop fully and validate potential therapeutic approaches. Specific dietary interventions offer exciting potential for nontoxic, physiologic ways to alter enteric microbial structure and metabolism to benefit the natural history of many intestinal and systemic disorders.
R24 is a mouse IgG3 monoclonal antibody (mab) that reacts with the ganglioside GD3 expressed by cells of neuroectodermal origin. The anti-tumor activity of R24 has been demonstrated in initial phase I and pilot trials in patients suffering from metastatic melanoma. The purpose of this study was to investigate the biotechnological production and particularly the glycosylation of this clinically important antibody. Growth, metabolism, and IgG production of R24 secreting hybridoma cells were analyzed on 1 L bioreactor bench scale using repeated-batch mode. The amount of 57 mg of pure mab was obtained from 1.6 L crude supernatant by protein A chromatography. Western blot binding assays with sugar-specific lectins revealed glycosylation of the heavy chains, whereas no carbohydrates were detectable on the light chains. Because glycosylation is essential for antibody effector functions in vivo (such as complement fixation or binding to macrophage Fc receptors), mab R24 was subjected to both enzymatic deglycosylation using PNGase F and chemical deglycosylation by hydrazinolysis. Released glycans were structurally characterized by high pH anion exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-PAD), matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF), and electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight (ESI-QTOF) mass spectrometry. Six major biantennary chains of the complex glycosylation phenotype were found with variations in galactosylation and core fucosylation. The predominant N-linked structure, indicating the high degree of agalactosyl glycoforms, was the agalacto biantennary chain with a relative percentage of 57% (51% core-fucosylated, 6% nonfucosylated). The second most abundant oligosaccharide was the monogalacto biantennary chain amounting to 30% (26% core- and 4% nonfucosylated). The antibody contained 0.46 microg sialic acid per mg protein, which splits into 0.243 microg Neu5Gc and 0.217 microg Neu5Ac, corresponding to a Neu5Ac:Neu5Gc ratio of 1:1.06. Furthermore, the antigen specificity of R24 was determined by immunodetection of GD3 on thin-layer chromatograms, and real time GD3-antibody binding interactions were measured with an optical biosensor (BIAcore). From the structural data obtained in this study it is concluded that glycosylation of the antibody may be important in the clinical outcome of targeted anti-cancer immunotherapy.
During movement, there is a transition of activity across the population, such that place-field centers ahead of the rat are sequentially activated in the order that they will be encountered. Although the mechanisms responsible for this sequence updating are unknown, two classes of models can be considered. The first class involves head-direction information for activating neurons in the order that their place fields will be traversed. An alternative model contends that motion and turn-related information from the posterior parietal cortex shift the subset of active hippocampal cells across the population. To explicitly test these two models, rodents were trained to run backward on a linear track, placing movement in opposition with head orientation. Although head-direction did not change between running conditions, place-field activity remapped and there was an increase in place-field size during backward running compared with forward. The population activity, however, could still be used to reconstruct the location of the rat accurately. Moreover, theta phase precession was maintained in both running conditions, indicating preservation of place-field sequences on short-time scales. The observation that sequence encoding persists even when the animal is orientated away from the direction of movement favors the concept that posterior parietal cortical mechanisms may be partially responsible for updating hippocampal activity patterns.
The ever-red leaf trait, which is important for breeding ornamental and higher anthocyanin plants, rarely appears in Malus families, but little is known about the regulation of anthocyanin biosynthesis involved in the red leaves. In our study, HPLC analysis showed that the anthocyanin concentration in ever-red leaves, especially cyanidin, was significantly higher than that in evergreen leaves. The transcript level of McMYB10 was significantly correlated with anthocyanin synthesis between the 'Royalty' and evergreen leaf 'Flame' cultivars during leaf development. We also found the ever-red leaf colour cultivar 'Royalty' contained the known R6 : McMYB10 sequence, but was not in the evergreen leaf colour cultivar 'Flame', which have been reported in apple fruit. The distinction in promoter region maybe is the main reason why higher expression level of McMYB10 in red foliage crabapple cultivar. Furthermore, McMYB10 promoted anthocyanin biosynthesis in crabapple leaves and callus at low temperatures and during long-day treatments. Both heterologous expression in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and Arabidopsis pap1 mutant, and homologous expression in crabapple and apple suggested that McMYB10 could promote anthocyanins synthesis and enhanced anthocyanin accumulation in plants. Interestingly, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, coupled with yeast one-hybrid analysis, revealed that McMYB10 positively regulates McF3'H via directly binding to AACCTAAC and TATCCAACC motifs in the promoter. To sum up, our results demonstrated that McMYB10 plays an important role in ever-red leaf coloration, by positively regulating McF3'H in crabapple. Therefore, our work provides new perspectives for ornamental fruit tree breeding.
The kinetic and spectroscopic changes accompanying the binding of two monoclonal antibodies to the oxidized form of horse heart cytochrome c have been investigated. The two epitopes recognized by the antibodies are distinct and noninteracting: antibody 2B5 binds to native cytochrome c near a type II turn (residue 44) while antibody 5F8 binds on the opposite face of the protein near the amino terminus of an alpha-helical segment (residue 60). Antibody-cytochrome c binding obeys a simple bimolecular reaction mechanism with second-order rate constants approaching those expected for diffusion-limited protein-protein interactions. The association rate constants have small activation enthalpies and are inversely dependent on solvent viscosity, as expected for diffusion-controlled reactions. There is a moderate ionic strength dependence of the rate of association between the 2B5 antibody and cytochrome c, with the rate constant increasing about 4-fold as the ionic strength is varied between 0.14 and 0 M. Comparison of the rates for antibody-cytochrome c complex formation for binding to the reduced-native, oxidized-native, and alkaline conformations shows that for MAb 2B5 the forward rate constant depends slightly on cytochrome c conformation. Investigation of the pH-induced transition between the native and alkaline conformational states for free cytochrome c and for antibody-cytochrome c complexes shows that antibody binding stabilizes the native form of the protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
After UV irradiation, DNA polymerases specialized in translesion DNA synthesis (TLS) aid DNA replication. However, it is unclear whether other mechanisms also facilitate the elongation of UV-damaged DNA. We wondered if Rad51 recombinase (Rad51), a factor that escorts replication forks, aids replication across UV lesions. We found that depletion of Rad51 impairs S-phase progression and increases cell death after UV irradiation. Interestingly, Rad51 and the TLS polymerase poleta modulate the elongation of nascent DNA in different ways, suggesting that DNA elongation after UV irradiation does not exclusively rely on TLS events. In particular, Rad51 protects the DNA synthesized immediately before UV irradiation from degradation and avoids excessive elongation of nascent DNA after UV irradiation. In Rad51-depleted samples, the degradation of DNA was limited to the first minutes after UV irradiation and required the exonuclease activity of the double strand break repair nuclease (Mre11). The persistent dysregulation of nascent DNA elongation after Rad51 knockdown required Mre11, but not its exonuclease activity, and PrimPol, a DNA polymerase with primase activity. By showing a crucial contribution of Rad51 to the synthesis of nascent DNA, our results reveal an unanticipated complexity in the regulation of DNA elongation across UV-damaged templates.
Archaea, primarily Crenarchaeota, are common in soil; however, the structure of soil archaeal communities and the factors regulating their diversity and abundance remain poorly understood. Here, we used barcoded pyrosequencing to comprehensively survey archaeal and bacterial communities in 146 soils, representing a multitude of soil and ecosystem types from across the globe. Relative archaeal abundance, the percentage of all 16S rRNA gene sequences recovered that were archaeal, averaged 2% across all soils and ranged from 0% to >10% in individual soils. Soil C:N ratio was the only factor consistently correlated with archaeal relative abundances, being higher in soils with lower C:N ratios. Soil archaea communities were dominated by just two phylotypes from a constrained clade within the Crenarchaeota, which together accounted for >70% of all archaeal sequences obtained in the survey. As one of these phylotypes was closely related to a previously identified putative ammonia oxidizer, we sampled from two long-term nitrogen (N) addition experiments to determine if this taxon responds to experimental manipulations of N availability. Contrary to expectations, the abundance of this dominant taxon, as well as archaea overall, tended to decline with increasing N. This trend was coupled with a concurrent increase in known N-oxidizing bacteria, suggesting competitive interactions between these groups.
INTRODUCTION: Little is known about the effect of body mass index (BMI) on the efficacy and safety of testosterone therapy in hypogonadal men. A prior noncomparative trial demonstrated that testosterone 2% gel restored testosterone levels in hypogonadal men and was generally well tolerated. AIM: This post hoc analysis evaluated the influence of BMI on the pharmacokinetics of testosterone therapy in men with low testosterone. METHODS: Men (N = 149) aged 18-75 applied testosterone 2% gel to the front and inner thigh once daily for 90 days. Starting dose was 40 mg/day, which could be adjusted at days 14, 35, and 60. Patients were split into categories depending on baseline BMI: Tertile 1 (</= 29.1 kg/m(2)), Tertile 2 (29.2-32.4 kg/m(2)), and Tertile 3 (>32.4 kg/m(2)). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Efficacy end points were average serum total testosterone concentrations over 24 hours and maximum serum testosterone concentrations at day 90. Adverse events were recorded. RESULTS: The efficacy analysis included 129 men with low testosterone (mean age 52.9, 54.0, and 54.2 years for Tertiles 1, 2, and 3, respectively) defined as serum testosterone <250-300 ng/dL. Baseline testosterone levels were comparable across BMI tertiles. After 90 days of treatment with testosterone 2% gel (>/= 40 mg/day), 79.1%, 79.5%, and 73.8% of patients in Tertiles 1, 2, and 3, respectively, achieved serum testosterone concentrations in the physiologic range (i.e., >/= 300 to </= 1,140 ng/dL). The mean average daily dose at day 90 was higher in participants in Tertiles 3 vs. 2 (P = 0.039) and Tertiles 3 vs. 1 (P = 0.010). The gel was generally well tolerated, with skin reactions the most commonly reported adverse event (16.1%; n = 24). CONCLUSIONS: In this study, daily application of testosterone 2% gel was effective at returning serum testosterone to physiologic levels in men with low testosterone and high BMI, although required dose was affected by BMI.
AIM: To quantify the time from the start of training to the first interruption and to identify horse and training risk factors for voluntary interruptions and interruptions due to musculoskeletal injury occurring before the first trial. METHODS: A prospective cohort study was used to collect data on the training activity of 2-year-old racehorses, from 14 trainers in the Northern and Central Districts of New Zealand, over two racing seasons (2008/09 and 2009/10). Daily training data were recorded for each horse, including, distances worked at canter (>15 seconds/200 m), three measures of high-speed exercise (15, 13, and <12 seconds/200 m) and reasons why horses were not working. Competing risks survival analysis was used to investigate associations between risk factors and voluntary interruptions (no known condition or disease present), or interruptions due to musculoskeletal injury occurring before the first official trial. RESULTS: A total of 205 horses spent 11,051 training days at risk of an interruption before the first trial. There were 134/205 (65.4%) cases of interruptions, of which 115/134 (85.8%) were voluntary interruptions and 19/134 (14.2%) were due to musculoskeletal injury. In the final multivariable models, the risk of voluntary interruptions decreased with increasing age at the start of training, and increased with the number of days off during training, but was not associated with gender. Females had a decreased risk of interruptions due to musculoskeletal injury compared with males. There was no association between the number of high-speed events and either voluntary interruptions or interruptions due to musculoskeletal injury. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The study highlighted horse and training risk factors associated with two types of interruptions occurring during training. Identification of modifiable risk factors may help to reduce the proportion of horses experiencing an interruption before the first trial start, reducing the number of lost training days and the associated cost.
Many challenges are inherent when conducting research in the older adult population as well as in the nursing home environment. The safety and quality of care provided in nursing homes need further examination through research. The purpose of this paper is to discuss research issues and recruitment barriers experienced by a research team collecting data for a study assessing the education and learning needs of nursing home nurses in central Illinois and related resident outcomes. Research barriers identified in this study include organizational and administrative barriers in addition to staff barriers. The strategy that was most helpful in gaining access to nursing homes in central Illinois was face to face contact. Future nursing home researchers are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the nursing home environment, communicate with nursing home trade associations, and develop personal contacts with area nursing home administrators.
Heterologous expression platforms of biopharmaceutical proteins have been significantly improved over the last decade. Further improvement can be established by examining the intrinsic properties of proteins. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is an anti-inflammatory cytokine with a short half-life that plays an important role in re-establishing immune homeostasis. This homodimeric protein of 36 kDa has significant therapeutic potential to treat inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In this study we show that the major production bottleneck of human IL-10 is not protein instability as previously suggested, but extensive multimerisation due to its intrinsic 3D domain swapping characteristic. Extensive multimerisation of human IL-10 could be visualised as granules in planta. On the other hand, mouse IL-10 hardly multimerised, which could be largely attributed to its glycosylation. By introducing a short glycine-serine-linker between the fourth and fifth alpha helix of human IL-10 a stable monomeric form of IL-10 (hIL-10(mono)) was created that no longer multimerised and increased yield up to 20-fold. However, hIL-10(mono) no longer had the ability to reduce pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages. Forcing dimerisation restored biological activity. This was achieved by fusing human IL-10(mono) to the C-terminal end of constant domains 2 and 3 of human immunoglobulin A (Fcalpha), a natural dimer. Stable dimeric forms of IL-10, like Fcalpha-IL-10, may not only be a better format for improved production, but also a more suitable format for medical applications.
Precise protein quantification is essential in comparative proteomics. Currently, quantification bias is inevitable when using proteotypic peptide-based quantitative proteomics strategy for the differences in peptides measurability. To improve quantification accuracy, we proposed an "empirical rule for linearly correlated peptide selection (ERLPS)" in quantitative proteomics in our previous work. However, a systematic evaluation on general application of ERLPS in quantitative proteomics under diverse experimental conditions needs to be conducted. In this study, the practice workflow of ERLPS was explicitly illustrated; different experimental variables, such as, different MS systems, sample complexities, sample preparations, elution gradients, matrix effects, loading amounts, and other factors were comprehensively investigated to evaluate the applicability, reproducibility, and transferability of ERPLS. The results demonstrated that ERLPS was highly reproducible and transferable within appropriate loading amounts and linearly correlated response peptides should be selected for each specific experiment. ERLPS was used to proteome samples from yeast to mouse and human, and in quantitative methods from label-free to O18/O16-labeled and SILAC analysis, and enabled accurate measurements for all proteotypic peptide-based quantitative proteomics over a large dynamic range.
MuB assembles into a polymer on DNA in the presence of ATP and is directly involved in the selection of an appropriate site on the Escherichia coli chromosome for the insertion of the bacteriophage Mu genome. We have developed an assay using fluorescently tagged proteins to monitor the polymeric state of MuB via fluorescence resonance energy transfer. We show that polymer assembly is initiated by the formation of an ATP-MuB complex. MuB then self-associates into a protomer before binding to DNA. Upon binding to DNA, a dramatic increase in energy transfer is observed, suggesting a conformational change within MuB. Polymer disassembly is much slower than assembly and is greatly stimulated by the MuA transposase. Additionally, MuB is readily exchanged between polymers, and ATP hydrolysis is directly coupled to polymer disassembly. Our data support a model in which a combination of rapid polymer assembly, MuA-mediated disassembly, followed by rapid reassembly of the polymer allows MuB to sample multiple DNA targets until an appropriate site is located for the insertion of the bacteriophage genome.
BACKGROUND: The small animal model of cardiac transplantation is the most common model in organ transplantation studies. The cervical heterotopic transplantation is widely performed because this allows for direct observation of the graft heartbeat and contributes to early prediction of graft rejection. OBJECTIVE: A mouse-rat cervical heterotopic cardiac xenotransplantation model was modified with respect to the anesthesia method, cardiac graft harvesting method, and perioperative treatment. These improvements ensure the stability and reliability of xenotransplantation models for in vivo studies of immune-mediated graft rejection. METHODS: After establishing isoflurane inhalation anesthesia, the donors' hearts were harvested. The experimental method involved separate ligation of the left and right superior venae cavae; the other blood vessels were ligated in a cluster. Both the donor and recipient animals were placed on a heating pad intraoperatively to maintain a body temperature of 37-40 degrees C. The model establishment was divided into 3 stages: practice, stabilization, and stereotyping. The surgical success rate and operation time were recorded. Specimens were harvested at different time points for histopathological examination. RESULTS: The anesthetic effect of isoflurane was well maintained, and no animals died of adverse anesthetic events. Body temperature was maintained at 37-40 degrees C which effectively shortened the time to restoration. The modification of the cardiac graft harvesting method is conducive to rebeating of the donor heart. The success rates in the stabilization and stereotyping stages were significantly higher than that in the practice stage (P < .05). The operation time in the stabilization and stereotyping stages were significantly shorter than those in the practice stage (P < .05). Histopathological examination revealed thrombosis formation, interstitial hemorrhage, and inflammatory cell infiltration in the donor hearts. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that the mouse-rat cervical heterotopic cardiac xenotransplantation model is the ideal animal model for studying xenograft rejection.
Beliefs about what constitutes health promoting behaviors vary by culture and class, and knowing how an older adult interprets a specific health behavior can improve health education and medical compliance. Ethnomedical approaches have investigated how people define disease and the therapies used to return to a state of health. However, little research has addressed how individuals define health, or the behaviors they use to maintain health. We analyze the behaviors elders state are needed to stay healthy, and their meanings for these behaviors. Narratives collected through in-depth interviews with 145 male and female rural North Carolina residents aged 70 and older, including African Americans, Native Americans and European Americans are analyzed using systematic text analysis. The participants' narratives include seven salient health maintenance domains: (1) Eating Right, (2) Drinking Water, (3) "Taking" Exercise, (4) Staying Busy, (5) Being with People, (6) Trusting in God and Participating in Church, and (7) Taking Care of Yourself. Several of these domains are multi-dimensional in the meanings the elders ascribe to them. There is also overlap in the content of some of the domains; they are not discrete in the minds of the elders and a specific health behavior can reflect more than one domain. Four themes cross-cut the domains: "balance and moderation", "the holistic view of health", "social integration", and "personal responsibility". Elders in these rural communities hold a definition of health that overlaps with, but is not synonymous with a biomedical model. These elders' concept of health seamlessly integrates physical, mental, spiritual, and social aspects of health, reflecting how health is embedded in the everyday experience of these elders. Staying healthy is maintaining the ability to function in a community. These results indicate that providers cannot assume that older patients will share their interpretation of general health promotion advice.
BACKGROUND: Recent studies show that galling Hymenoptera and Diptera are able to synthesize the plant hormone indole-3-acetic acid (auxin) from tryptophan and that plant response to insect-produced auxin is implicated in gall formation. We examined the leaf transcriptome of galled and ungalled leaves of individuals of the Hawaiian endemic plant Metrosideros polymorpha (Myrtaceae) subject to infestation by psyllid (Hemiptera) gall-makers in the genus Trioza (Triozidae). RESULTS: Transcript libraries were sequenced using Illumina technology and the reads assembled de novo into contigs. Functional identification of contigs followed a two-step procedure, first identifying contigs by comparison to the completely sequenced genome of the related Eucalyptus, followed by identifying the equivalent Arabidopsis gene using a pre-computed mapping between Eucalyptus and Arabidopsis genes. This allowed us to use the rich functional annotation of the Arabidopsis genome to assess the transcriptional landscape of galling in Metrosideros. Comparing galled and ungalled leaves, we find a highly significant enrichment of expressed genes with a gene ontology (GO) annotation to auxin response in the former. One gene consistently expressed in all galled trees examined but not detected in any libraries from ungalled leaves was the Metrosideros version of SMALL AUXIN UPREGULATED (SAUR) 67 which appears to be a marker for leaf-galling in Metrosideros. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that an auxin response is involved in galling by Metrosideros psyllids. The possibility should therefore be considered that psyllids (like other insects examined) are able to synthesize auxin.
During recent years, extensive amounts of data have become available regarding influenza A virus (IAV) in wild birds in northern Europe, while information from southern Europe is more limited. Here, we present an IAV surveillance study conducted in western Portugal 2008-2009, analyzing 1653 samples from six different species of waterfowl, with the majority of samples taken from Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). Overall 4.4% of sampled birds were infected. The sampling results revealed a significant temporal variation in the IAV prevalence, including a pronounced peak among predominantly young birds in June, indicating that IAV circulate within breeding populations in the wetlands of western Portugal. The H10N7 and H9N2 subtypes were predominant among isolated viruses. Phylogenetic analyses of the hemagglutinin and neuraminidase sequences of H10N7, H9N2 and H11N3 virus showed that sequences from Portugal were closely related to viral sequences from Central Europe as well as to IAVs isolated in the southern parts of Africa, reflecting Portugal's position on the European-African bird migratory flyway. This study highlights the importance of Portugal as a migratory crossroad for IAV, connecting breeding stationary waterfowl with birds migrating between continents which enable transmission and spread of IAV.
We investigated distribution of neuronal and glial inclusions in 30 brains obtained at autopsy from patients with Lewy bodies (LBs) disease, which was clinically diagnosed as Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), or pure autonomic failure (PAF). The cases were classified, according to the guidelines for the pathological diagnosis of DLB, into three types: the neocortical type, the limbic type, and the brain stem-predominant type. All postmortem brains had coil-like glial inclusions as well as LBs, and the distribution pattern and density of glial inclusions and LBs varied. The distribution of glial inclusions was strikingly similar to that of LBs. In the cerebral cortex in particular, the number of glial inclusions was fairly well correlated with the number of LBs, irrespective of the three pathological types. In the brain stem, distribution was similar between glial inclusions and LBs, and there was no distinct pathological difference among the three types. Glial inclusions and LBs were immunohistopathologically similar with respect to ubiquitin, alpha-synuclein, and Gallyas-Braak staining. The clinical features of the three types of LB disease were also similar; i.e., parkinsonism, some dementia, and/or autonomic failure. The inclusions in neurons and glial cells occurred in parallel with respect to tissue distribution and immunohistochemical features, suggesting that accumulation of neuronal and glial inclusions in the LB diseases have a common pathological feature. Our findings suggest that DLB, PD with and without dementia, and PAF share one clinicopathological entity.
Well-orchestrated epithelial-mesenchymal interactions are crucial for hair follicle (HF) morphogenesis. In this study, ectodermal precursor cells (EPCs) with the capacity to cross talk with hair-inductive dermal cells were generated from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and assessed for HF-forming ability in vivo. EPCs derived from three hiPSC lines generated with 4 or 3 factors (POU5F1, SOX2, KLF4 +/- MYC) mostly expressed keratin 18, a marker of epithelial progenitors. When cocultured with human dermal papilla (DP) cells, a 4 factor 201B7 hiPSC-EPC line upregulated follicular keratinocyte (KC) markers more significantly than normal human adult KCs (NHKCs) and other hiPSC-EPC lines. DP cells preferentially increased DP biomarker expression in response to this line. Interestingly, 201B7 hiPSCs were shown to be ectodermal/epithelial prone, and the derived EPCs were putatively in a wingless-type MMTV integration site family (WNT)-activated state. Importantly, co-transplantation of 201B7 hiPSC-EPCs, but not NHKCs, with trichogenic mice dermal cells into immunodeficient mice resulted in HF formation. Human HF stem cell markers were detected in reconstituted HFs; however, a low frequency of human-derived cells implied that hiPSC-EPCs contributed to HF morphogenesis via direct repopulation and non-cell autonomous activities. The current study suggests a, to our knowledge, previously unrecognized advantage of using hiPSCs to enhance epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in HF bioengineering.
INTRODUCTION: The incidence of cholelithiasis increases with age, however, there is still little data about the outcomes of cholecystectomy in patients with age of 80 and above. Population ageing presents tremendous challenges for surgeons. AIM: The aim of the authors was to compare emergency and elective cholecystectomies performed in these elderly patients. METHOD: This retrospective study was based on the analysis of operation type, conversion rate, complications, mortality, length of hospital stay of all patients over 80 who underwent cholecystectomy in the last 6 years at the 1st Department of Surgery, Semmelweis University. RESULTS: 69 elective and 51 emergency operations were performed. In the emergency group pancreatitis was found in 9.8%, liver abscess in 14%, and common bile duct stones in 27% of the patients on admission. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy could be performed in 84% of patients in the elective group, while in 17.7% of patients in the emergency group. The length of stay at the intensive care unit was 9.1 and 1 days, while the total length of hospital stay was 12 and 3.6 days for the elective and emergency groups, respectively. In the emergency group mortality was 20% and reoperation was performed in 16% of patients, while at the elective group none of these occurred. CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is safe as elective surgery for patients with age of 80 and above. For this reason the authors recommend elective cholecystectomy in this age group.
The universe of medical practice is changing at an ever increasing rate, an exponentially increasing rate. In examining Earth's history from the beginning of time, it is not necessarily change per se that has threatened countless species but the rate of change that has challenged species survival. Darwin's thesis indicates that those who are most able to adapt to change will be more likely to survive. Medical technology, especially imaging technology, has been on a exponential growth curve for the past 2 decades, dramatically changing not only the field of medical imaging but the environment of all of medicine. Change in our practice environment represents both threats and opportunities to medical specialties to adapt and survive in the context of radiology and remain relevant to the future practice of medicine. Can we as radiologists survive and remain relevant in the future practice of medicine? What is the path to survival? The approach to survival will be multifactorial. We must continue to put our patients first, maintaining high-quality patient care in our adaptation strategy. We must do a better job of developing and investing in leaders, not only within radiology, but within all of medicine. We will need to hypersubspecialize within our profession and with that hypersubspecialization develop an integrated team concept, working together like a well-oiled Swiss watch. Last, we must as a profession invest in ourselves vigorously, supporting imaging research in a number of arenas, searching for the next imaging breakthrough, and exploring and adapting nanotechnology applications in both imaging and therapy.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine the role of the chemokine receptor CXCR7 in atherosclerosis and vascular remodeling. CXCR7 is the alternative receptor of CXCL12, which regulates stem cell-mediated vascular repair and limits atherosclerosis via its receptor, CXCR4. METHODS AND RESULTS: Wire-induced injury of the carotid artery was performed in mice with a ubiquitous, conditional deletion of CXCR7 and in mice treated with the synthetic CXCR7 ligand CCX771. The effect of CCX771 treatment on atherosclerosis was studied in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe(-/-)) mice fed a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. Lipoprotein fractions were quantified in the plasma of Apoe(-/-) mice by fast protein liquid chromatography. Uptake of DiI-labeled very low-density lipoprotein to adipose tissue was determined by 2-photon microscopy. We show that genetic deficiency of Cxcr7 increased neointima formation and lesional macrophage accumulation in hyperlipidemic mice after vascular injury. This was related to increased serum cholesterol levels and subsequent hyperlipidemia-induced monocytosis. Conversely, administration of the CXCR7 ligand CCX771 to Apoe(-/-) mice inhibited lesion formation and ameliorated hyperlipidemia after vascular injury and during atherosclerosis. Treatment with CCX771 reduced circulating very low-density lipoprotein levels but not low-density lipoprotein or high-density lipoprotein levels and increased uptake of very low-density lipoprotein into Cxcr7-expressing white adipose tissue. This effect of CCX771 was associated with an enhanced lipase activity and reduced expression of Angptl4 in adipose tissue. CONCLUSIONS: CXCR7 regulates blood cholesterol by promoting its uptake in adipose tissue. This unexpected cholesterol-lowering effect of CXCR7 is beneficial for atherosclerotic vascular diseases, presumably via amelioration of hyperlipidemia-induced monocytosis, and can be augmented with a synthetic CXCR7 ligand.
The activation of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) ameliorates the homocysteine (Hcy)-induced matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) by decreasing reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. However, the mechanism by which Hcy induces ROS generation and MMP activation is unclear. We hypothesize that Hcy increases NADH oxidase (Nox-4) and decreases thioredoxin (Trx). This leads to translocation of Nox-4 into the mitochondria and decrease in Trx. In addition, activation of PPARgamma ameliorates the translocation of Nox-4 into mitochondria and MMP-9 activation. Mouse aortic vascular endothelial cells (MVEC) were cultured in the presence or absence of 100 microM Hcy. The cells were pre-treated with ciglitazone (CZ, 150 microM). Activity of PPARgamma activity was measured by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and antibody super shift assay. In situ generation of ROS was measured using 2,7-dichlorofluorescin (DCF) as a probe. The expression of Nox-4 and Trx were measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (Q-RT-PCR). The translocation of Nox-4 was measured by 2-D gel analysis. To determine the levels of Nox-4 and Trx, the mitochondria and cytosol were separated and Western blot analysis was preformed. The MMP-9 activity was measured by gelatin-zymography. The results suggested that CZ activated endothelial PPARgamma in the presence of Hcy. Production of ROS was ameliorated by PPARgamma activation. Expression of Nox-4 was increased, while production of Trx was decreased by Hcy. However, the treatment with CZ normalized the levels of Nox-4 and Trx. Nox-4 was translocated into mitochondria in Hcy-treated endothelial cells. This translocation was associated with decreased production of Trx in mitochondria. The treatment with CZ blocked this translocation and increased Trx levels in mitochondria. Hcy-mediated MMP-9 activity was decreased in cells pre-treated with CZ. These results suggest that Hcy increases NADH oxidase and decreases Trx by translocation of Nox-4 to mitochondria. The data show that indeed, activation of PPARgamma ameliorates the mitochondrial translocation of NOX-4 and MMP-9 activation.
The present study explored the nature and frequency of physiology naive beliefs by investigating novices' understanding of the respiratory system. Previous studies have shown considerable misconceptions related to physiology but focused mostly on specific physiological processes of normal respiration. Little is known about novices' broader understanding of breathing in a clinical context. Our study hypothesized that naive beliefs could hamper participants' ability to understand the interrelatedness of respiratory structures and functions related to breathing during a clinical complication. The study entailed both quantitative and qualitative foci. A two-tier test was designed and administered to 211 first-year medical students. Participants were asked to choose the correct answer out of a set of four options and to substantiate their choices. Questions were purposefully left open to elicit a wide range of responses. Statistical analysis (SPSS) was done to evaluate the frequency of naive beliefs. Thematic analysis was used to determine themes within the raw data. The majority of participants selected incorrect answers in the multiple-choice question part of the questionnaire. Results from the thematic analysis yielded a considerable range of naive beliefs about gas exchange, foundational physics, airflow, anatomic structures, and breathing pathways. An awareness of the existence of such naive beliefs in respiratory physiology will allow educators to address them in their teaching and thereby prevent naive beliefs transforming into misconceptions.
Various circulating biochemical markers are indicators of pathological state in leukemia and its subtypes. Increased oxidative stress and decreased antioxidant factors portray clear image associated with malignancies during subtypes of leukemia. In this research work we investigated the inter-relationship among the subtypes of leukemia with circulating biochemical markers and oxidative stress in the Pakistani population. This research work was conducted on a total number of 70 subjects in which 20 were control participants and 50 were suffering from leukemia and divided into two subtypes (ALL and AML). Various circulating biomarkers were investigated including hematological, hepatic and renal profiles as well as oxidative stress markers, electrolytes and vitamins C and E. Results show that vitamin E was found to be decreased in diseased sub-types (P < 0.05). Malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were very high in disease sub-types (ALL-B = 8.69 +/- 1.59; ALL-T = 8.78 +/- 0.97; AML = 8.50 +/- 1.29) compared to controls (1.22 +/- 0.10; P < 0.05) while the levels of antioxidants [superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), reduced glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT)], platelets, as well as electrolytes (Ca and Mg) were reduced in patients suffering from leukemia (sub-types). Enhanced levels of oxidative stress (MDA) and decreased levels of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants reflect the pathological state and impaired cell control in patients suffering from leukemia (subtypes) and show a strong correlation with oxidative stress, indicating that patients' biological systems are under oxidative stress.
The prevalence of morbidity is a major deterrent to the success of aortic aneurysm replacement operations. We have developed a model of spinal cord ischemia, based on the amplitude reduction of the motor-evoked potential, which produces approximately a 90% prevalence of paraplegia. Regional blood flow was studied with the use of radioactive microspheres, and results showed that there was a significant decrease in flow to the lumbar cord (85% reduction) during aortic occlusion, followed by a twofold to threefold hyperemia that persisted for 24 hours. Histopathologic examination of the cord revealed that the greater portion of microgliosis, spongiosis, and neuronal damage was confined to the gray matter of the cord, and its severity increased as one progressed caudally. The somatosensory-evoked potential disappeared before the motor-evoked potential L-2 signal in all dogs, with a mean disappearance time of 10.9 +/- 5.6 minutes, compared with 21 +/- 6.6 minutes for the motor-evoked potential. Both the sensory-evoked potential and the motor-evoked potential cord signal were present 24 hours later in all dogs tested. The peripheral nerve motor-evoked potential disappeared within 1 minute of cord ischemia, was not present 24 hours later, and hence appears to be too sensitive to use as an indicator of spinal cord damage. Plotting spinal cord motor-evoked potential amplitude reduction versus both histopathologic damage and regional blood flow revealed a positive correlation between motor-evoked potential amplitude reduction, decreased cord perfusion, and increased histopathologic damage. In addition, it may be possible to make inferences about the neurologic status of a subject based on the magnitude and time-course of the motor-evoked potential's amplitude reduction and wave morphology.
Bone loss that causes aseptic loosening of orthopedic implants is initiated by pro-inflammatory cytokines produced by macrophages in response to implant-derived wear particles. MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling pathways are activated by the particles; however, it is not clear which of the signaling pathways are important for the initial response to the wear particles and which are only involved at later steps in the process, such as osteoclast differentiation. Here, we show that the ERK1/2, p38, JNK, and NF-kappaB pathways are rapidly activated by the wear particles but that only the ERK1/2 and NF-kappaB pathways are required for the initial response to the wear particles, which include increases in TNFalpha promoter activity, TNFalpha mRNA expression, and secretion of TNFalpha protein. Moreover, ERK1/2 activation by wear particles is also required for increased expression of the transcription factor Egr-1 as well as Egr-1's ability to bind to and activate the TNFalpha promoter. These results, together with our previous studies of the PI3K/Akt pathway, demonstrate that wear particles coordinately activate multiple signaling pathways and multiple transcription factors to stimulate production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNFalpha. The current study also demonstrates that the signaling pathways are activated to a much greater extent by wear particles with adherent endotoxin than by "endotoxin-free" wear particles. These results, together with those demonstrating the requirement for ERK1/2/Egr-1 and NF-kappaB, show that activation of these signaling pathways is responsible for the ability of adherent endotoxin to potentiate cytokine production, osteoclast differentiation, and bone loss induced by wear particles.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3), a member of the Stat family, is specifically activated during mouse embryo implantation. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression, activation and regulation of Stat3 in rat uterus during early pregnancy, pseudopregnancy, delayed implantation and artificial decidualization. Stat3 mRNA was highly expressed in the luminal epithelium on day 5 and in the luminal epithelium and underlying stromal cells at implantation sites on day 6 of pregnancy. There was a strong level of Stat3 protein expression and phosphorylation in the stromal cells near the lumen and in the luminal epithelium on day 5 of pregnancy, which was similar to day 5 of pseudopregnancy. In the afternoon of day 6, the strong level of Stat3 phosphorylation was detected only in the luminal epithelium. Stat3 was highly expressed and activated in the decidual cells from days 7 to 9 of pregnancy and under artificial decidualization in the present study. Our results suggest that the strong level of Stat3 activation in the luminal epithelium and underlying stromal cells during the pre-implantation period may be important for establishing uterine receptivity as in mice, and the high level of Stat3 expression and activation in decidual cells may play a role during decidualization.
Many gastrointestinal G protein-coupled receptors are glycosylated; however, which potential glycosylation sites are actually glycosylated and their role in receptor transduction or receptor modulation (internalization, down-regulation, desensitization) is largely unknown. We used site-directed mutagenesis to address these issues with the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRP-R). Each of the four potential glycosylation sites was mutated by converting the Asn (N) to Gln (Q). Transient expression in CHOP cells demonstrated that changing Asn(24) or Asn(191) inhibited GRP-R cell surface expression, whereas elimination of Asn(5) and Asn(20) had no effect. Using ligand cross-linking studies in stable mutants expressed in Balb 3T3 cells, all four potential extracellular sites were glycosylated with carbohydrate residues of approximately 13 kDa on Asn(5), 10 kDa on Asn(20), 5 kDa on Asn(24), and 9 kDa on Asn(191). Removal of three glycosylation sites (N5,20,24,Q mutant) did not alter receptor affinity or G protein coupling; therefore, it could be speculated that deglycosylation at Asn(191) might be responsible for the altered G protein coupling seen with complete enzymatic deglycosylation of the native receptor previously reported. Removal of any single glycosylation site did not interfere with GRP-R induced chronic desensitization or down-regulation. However, elimination of all three NH(2)-terminal sites (N5,20,24) markedly attenuated both processes, with no effect on acute homologous desensitization and with only a minimal alteration of GRP-R internalization, supporting the findings of other studies that suggest that chronic desensitization and down-regulation are functionally coupled, distinct from acute desensitization and distinct from internalization. These data show that separate and specific glycosylation sites are important for GRP-R trafficking to the cell surface, ligand binding, G protein coupling, chronic desensitization, and down-regulation.
RNA polymerase (pol) III produces essential components of the biosynthetic machinery; therefore, its output is tightly coupled with the rate of cell growth and proliferation. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Maf1 is an essential mediator of pol III repression in response to starvation. We demonstrate that a Maf1 ortholog is also used to restrain pol III activity in mouse and human cells. Mammalian Maf1 represses pol III transcription in vitro and in transfected fibroblasts. Furthermore, genetic deletion of Maf1 elevates pol III transcript expression, thus confirming the role of endogenous Maf1 as an inhibitor of mammalian pol III output. Maf1 is detected at chromosomal pol III templates in rodent and human cells. It interacts with pol III as well as its associated initiation factor TFIIIB and is phosphorylated in a serum-sensitive manner in vivo. These aspects of Maf1 function have been conserved between yeast and mammals and are therefore likely to be of fundamental importance in controlling pol III transcriptional activity.
BACKGROUND: The quality of the early environment is hypothesized to be an influence on morphological development in key neural areas related to affective responding, but direct evidence to support this possibility is limited. In a 22-year longitudinal study, we examined hippocampal and amygdala volumes in adulthood in relation to early infant attachment status, an important indicator of the quality of the early caregiving environment. METHODS: Participants (N = 59) were derived from a prospective longitudinal study of the impact of maternal postnatal depression on child development. Infant attachment status (35 Secure; 24 Insecure) was observed at 18 months of age, and MRI assessments were completed at 22 years [corrected]. RESULTS: In line with hypotheses, insecure versus secure infant attachment status was associated with larger amygdala volumes in young adults, an effect that was not accounted for by maternal depression history. We did not find early infant attachment status to predict hippocampal volumes. CONCLUSIONS: Common variations in the quality of early environment are associated with gross alterations in amygdala morphology in the adult brain. Further research is required to establish the neural changes that underpin the volumetric differences reported here, and any functional implications.
Cerium oxide nanoparticles (CeO2-NPs) are increasingly used in polishing, engine enhancement agents and many other products. Even though the acute toxicity of CeO2-NPs to plants has been investigated, the long-term effects of CeO2-NPs in the environment are still unknown. The main objective of this study was to investigate whether the treatment of tomato plants with relatively low concentrations of CeO2-NPs (10 mg L(-1)) through their lifecycle would affect the seed quality and the development of second generation seedlings. The results indicated that second generation seedlings grown from seeds collected from treated parent plants with CeO2-NPs (treated second generation seedlings) were generally smaller and weaker, as indicated by their smaller biomass, lower water transpiration and slightly higher reactive oxygen species content. An interesting phenomenon noticed in the study was that the second generation seedlings grown from treated seeds developed extensive root hairs compared with the control second generation seedlings (seedlings grown from seeds collected from untreated parent plants) regardless of the treatment. Treated second generation seedlings also accumulate a higher amount of ceria than control second generation seedlings under the same treatment conditions even though such differences are not statistically significant.
Neuronal cells are extremely vulnerable and have a limited capacity for self-repair in response to injury. For those reasons, there is obvious interest in limiting neuronal damage. Mechanisms and strategies used in order to protect against neuronal injury, apoptosis, dysfunction, and degeneration in the central nervous system are recognized as neuroprotection. Neuroprotection could be achieved through several classes of natural and synthetic neuroprotective agents. However, considering the side effects of synthetic neuroprotective agents, the search for natural neuroprotective agents has received great attention. Recently, an increasing number of studies have identified neuroprotective properties of chitosan and its derivatives; however, there are some significant challenges that must be overcome for the success of this approach. Hence, the objective of this review is to discuss neuroprotective properties of chitosan and its derivatives.
This study ascertained the effects of 9 days of zero gravity on the relative (percentage of total) and calculated absolute (mg/muscle) content of isomyosin expressed in both antigravity and locomotor skeletal muscle of ground control (CON) and flight-exposed (FL) rats. Results showed that although there were no differences in body weight between FL and CON animals, a significant reduction in muscle mass occurred in the vastus intermedius (VI) (P < 0.05) but not in the vastus lateralis (VL) or the tibialis anterior. Both total muscle protein and myofibril protein content were not different between the muscle regions examined in the FL and CON groups. In the VI, there were trends for reductions in the relative content of type I and IIa myosin heavy chains (MHCs) that were offset by increases in the relative content of both type IIb and possibly type IIx MHC protein (P > 0.05). mRNA levels were consistent with this pattern (P < 0.05). The same pattern held true for the red region of the VL as examined at both the protein and mRNA level (P < 0.05). When the atrophy process was examined, there were net reductions in the absolute content of both type I and IIa MHCs that were offset by calculated increases in type IIb MHC in both VI and red VL. Collectively, these findings suggest that there are both absolute and relative changes occurring in MHC expression in the "red" regions of antigravity skeletal muscle during exposure to zero gravity that could affect muscle function.
Two-photon microscopy (TPM) enables us to image deep into the thymus and document the events that are important for thymocyte development. To follow the migration of individuals in a crowd of thymocytes , we generate neonatal chimeras where less than one percent of the thymocytes are derived from a donor that is transgenic for a ubiquitously express fluorescent protein. To generate these partial hematopoetic chimeras, neonatal recipients are injected with bone marrow between 3-7 days of age. After 4-6 weeks, the mouse is sacrificed and the thymus is carefully dissected and bissected preserving the architecture of the tissue that will be imaged. The thymus is glued onto a coverslip in preparation for ex vivo imaging by TPM. During imaging the thymus is kept in DMEM without phenol red that is perfused with 95% oxygen and 5% carbon dioxide and warmed to 37 degrees C. Using this approach, we can study the events required for the generation of a diverse T cell repertoire.
The putative product of orf13 from the genome of Haemophilus influenzae HP1 bacteriophage shows homology only to bacteriophage T1 Dam methyltransferase, and a weak similarity to the conserved amino acids sequence motifs characteristic of m6A-methyltransferases. Especially interesting is lack of characteristic motif I responsible for binding of S-adenosylmethionine. Despite this fact, a DNA sequence of HP1 bacteriophage of Haemophilus influenzae encoding methyltransferase activity was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli using pMPMT4 omega expression vector. The cloned methyltransferase recognizes the sequence 5'-GATC-3' and methylates an adenine residue. The enzyme methylates both double- and single-stranded DNA substrates.
Plasmids of Agrobacterium tumefaciens replicate using the products of the repABC operon, which are highly conserved among plasmids and some chromosomes of the alpha-Proteobacteria. The products of repA and repB direct plasmid partitioning, while the repC gene encodes a replication initiator protein. The transcription of the repABC operon of tumour inducing (Ti) plasmids is both negatively autoregulated by the RepA and RepB proteins, and positively regulated by TraR. In the present study, we have identified a fourth gene (repD) in the repABC operon of an octopine-type Ti plasmid. repD is 78 codons in length, and maps between repA and repB genes. A repD-lacZ protein fusion demonstrated that repD is strongly expressed. Two identical binding sites for the RepB protein were found within the repD coding sequence, and these sites are required for plasmid stability and for maximal repression of repABC transcription. RepA protein enhances the binding of RepB at these binding sites, just as RepB increases the affinity of RepA for binding sites at the repABC P4 promoter. We propose that RepA and RepB form complexes that bind both sites, possibly causing a loop that is important for repression of the repABC operon. Binding at one or both sites may also be required for accurate plasmid partitioning.
Since its discovery in 2009, H1N1 influenza (H1N1) has spread globally. Predictive factors for severe disease in children are not well defined. Our retrospective data collection and logistic regression analysis on 137 patients hospitalized between April 2009 and February 2010 at Children's Hospital and Research Center Oakland describe clinical and epidemiologic features of H1N1 in children and determines predictors of severe disease.
In the early stages of reproductive isolation, genomic regions of reduced recombination are expected to show greater levels of differentiation, either because gene flow between species is reduced in these regions or because the effects of selection at linked sites within species are enhanced in these regions. Here, we study the patterns of DNA sequence variation at 27 autosomal loci among populations of Mus musculus musculus, M. m. domesticus, and M. m. castaneus, three subspecies of house mice with collinear genomes. We found that some loci exhibit considerable shared variation among subspecies, while others exhibit fixed differences. We used an isolation-with-gene-flow model to estimate divergence times and effective population sizes (N(e) ) and to disentangle ancestral variation from gene flow. Estimates of divergence time indicate that all three subspecies diverged from one another within a very short period of time approximately 350,000 years ago. Overall, N(e) for each subspecies was associated with the degree of genetic differentiation: M. m. musculus had the smallest N(e) and the greatest proportion of monophyletic gene genealogies, while M. m. castaneus had the largest N(e) and the smallest proportion of monophyletic gene genealogies. M. m. domesticus and M. m. musculus were more differentiated from each other than either were from M. m. castaneus, consistent with greater reproductive isolation between M. m. domesticus and M. m. musculus. F(ST) was significantly greater at loci experiencing low recombination rates compared to loci experiencing high recombination rates in comparisons between M. m. castaneus and M. m. musculus or M. m. domesticus. These results provide evidence that genomic regions with less recombination show greater differentiation, even in the absence of chromosomal rearrangements.
Analyses of Irish bathing water quality data sets are reported to investigate whether the parametric calculations proposed in the draft Bathing Water Directive are valid. Faecal coliforms (assumed to be Escherichia coli) and faecal streptococci (assumed to be intestinal enterococci) have been analysed separately. It was noted that classifications based on the parametric 95th percentile calculations disagreed with those based on percentage compliance with the standards on 13.8% of occasions. When these disagreements were studied, it was found that the datasets frequently contained many censored data points (Result < 1). Also, the datasets were not log normally distributed on at least 85% of occasions. Both these findings fatally undermine the validity of using a parametric method for calculating 95th percentiles to classify bathing water quality. By contrast the non-parametric Hazen method is a better estimate of true population 95th percentiles, but essentially gives very similar classifications to the percentage compliance approach, fully agreeing on over 95% of occasions. The same is also true when considering 90th percentiles. A series of Monte Carlo studies were also conducted to determine the impact of small numbers. It was ascertained that small sample sizes are very undependable in determining bathing water classification and the parametric method in particular is particularly unreliable. In conclusion, the parametric method for calculating bathing water compliance is so severely and fatally flawed statistically that it should not form the basis of any legislation. The Hazen method gives a better estimate of true 90th or 95th percentiles, though as the resultant classifications agree with percentage compliance so closely it is doubtful that there is any statistical value in using a percentile approach over the long established and well understood percentage compliance approach.
Oxytocin is a nonapeptide involved in a wide range of physiologic and behavioral functions. Until recently, it was believed that an unmodified oxytocin sequence was present in all placental mammals. This study analyzed oxytocin (OXT) in 29 primate species and the oxytocin receptor (OXTR) in 21 of these species. We report here three novel OXT forms in the New World monkeys, as well as a more extensive distribution of a previously described variant (Leu8Pro). In structural terms, these OXTs share the same three low-energy conformations in solution during molecular dynamic simulations, with subtle differences in their side chains. A consistent signal of positive selection was detected in the Cebidae family, and OXT position 8 showed a statistically significant (P = 0.013) correlation with litter size. Several OXTR changes were identified, some of them promoting gain or loss of putative phosphorylation sites, with possible consequences for receptor internalization and desensitization. OXTR amino acid sites are under positive selection, and intramolecular and intermolecular coevolutionary processes with OXT were also detected. We suggest that some New World monkey OXT-OXTR forms can be correlated to male parental care through the increase of cross-reactivity with its correlated vasopressin system.
Chromosomes in all organisms are highly organized and divided into multiple chromosomal interaction domains, or topological domains. Regions of active, high transcription help establish and maintain domain boundaries, but precisely how this occurs remains unclear. Here, using fluorescence microscopy and chromosome conformation capture in conjunction with deep sequencing (Hi-C), we show that in Caulobacter crescentus, both transcription rate and transcript length, independent of concurrent translation, drive the formation of domain boundaries. We find that long, highly expressed genes do not form topological boundaries simply through the inhibition of supercoil diffusion. Instead, our results support a model in which long, active regions of transcription drive local decompaction of the chromosome, with these more open regions of the chromosome forming spatial gaps in vivo that diminish contacts between DNA in neighboring domains. These insights into the molecular forces responsible for domain formation in Caulobacter likely generalize to other bacteria and possibly eukaryotes.
Augmentation of membrane bioreactors (MBRs) with activated carbon is established to offer several operational advantages. This work investigates the influence of low dosing (2 g/L) of powdered activated carbons (PACs) with different characteristics on the performance of MBR treating high strength molasses distillery wastewater containing difficult-to-biodegrade recalcitrant components. Two MBRs, augmented with different PACs, were operated in parallel over a period of 240 days and their performance monitored in terms of biomass growth, reduction in chemical oxygen demand (COD), sludge properties like extracellular polymeric substances content, filterability, and morphology. Removal of organics and coloring matter by adsorption, biodegradation and membrane filtration was estimated. Although adsorptive removal of color and COD is influenced by the properties of the PAC used, the performance of the PAC-MBRs was independent of PAC properties. Both PACs preferentially adsorbed the low molecular weight components in distillery wastewater. Retention by the membrane filter with the secondary cake layer contributed to reduction in color and COD of treated effluent. The findings indicate that low dosing with PAC adsorbing low molecular weight organics has a limited role in PAC-MBR treating distillery wastewater.
A number of filamentous fungi are known to produce high levels of saline-soluble and low-molecular-mass lectins. The function of these proteins are not clear but it has been proposed that they are involved in storage of nutrients, development, recognition of other organisms, and defense reactions. A gene encoding such a lectin (AOL) was deleted in the nematode-trapping fungus Arthrobotrys oligospora by homologous recombination. The deletion mutants did not express any hemagglutinating activity or protein cross-reacting with AOL antibodies. There were no significant differences between the DeltaAOL and wild-type strains in spore (conidia) germination, saprophytic growth, and pathogenicity. Furthermore, there was no significant difference in the growth and reproduction of collembolan feeding on the various strains of A. oligospora. Thus either the previous proposed functions of AOL are not correct, or the fungus can compensate for the absence of the lectin by expressing other proteins with similar function(s) as AOL.
HtrA (high-temperature requirement A) family proteins play important roles in protein-quality control processes in the bacterial periplasm. A common feature of all members of this family is their modular organization comprising a chymotrypsin-like protease domain and at least one PDZ (postsynaptic density of 95 kDa, disks large homolog 1 and zonula occludens 1) domain. All characterized HtrA proteins assemble into complex oligomers consisting of typically 3-24 monomers, which allow a tight regulation of proteolytic activity. Here, we provide evidence that the assembly of proteolytically active, higher-order complexes of DegQ from Legionella pneumophila is triggered by the binding of substrate-derived peptides. Crystal structures of inactive 3-mers and active 12-mers of DegQ reveal molecular details of elements of a conserved allosteric activation cascade that defines distinct protease ON and OFF states. Results from DegQ(Lp) variants harboring structure-based amino acid substitutions indicate that peptide binding to the PDZ1 domain is critical for proteolytic activity but not for the formation of higher-order oligomers. Combining structural, mutagenesis and biochemical data, we show that, in contrast to the proteolytic activity, the chaperone function of DegQ is not affected by the state of the activation cascade.
The success of molecular modeling and computational chemistry efforts are, by definition, dependent on quality software applications. Open source software development provides many advantages to users of modeling applications, not the least of which is that the software is free and completely extendable. In this review we categorize, enumerate, and describe available open source software packages for molecular modeling and computational chemistry. An updated online version of this catalog can be found at https://opensourcemolecularmodeling.github.io.
Cross-flow microfiltration was shown to retain Saccharomyces cerevisiae biomass utilized for heavy metal bioaccumulation. The passage of metal-laden influent through a series of sequential bioaccumulation systems allowed for further reductions in the levels of copper, cadmium, and cobalt in the final effluent than that afforded by a single bioaccumulation process. Serial bioaccumulation systems also allowed for partial separation of metals from dual metal influents. More than one elemental metal cation could be accumulated simultaneously and in greater quantities than when a single metal was present in the effluent (Cu(2+) 0.43 mmol, Cu(2+) + Cd(2+) 0.67 mmol, and Cu(2+) + Co(2+) 0.83 mmol/g yeast dry mass when the initial concentration of each of the metal species was 0.2 mmol x L(-1)). Co-accumulation of two different metal cations allowed higher total levels of bioaccumulation than found with a single metal. The flux rate was 2.9 x 10(2) L x h(-2)microm(-2) using a polypropylene microfiltration membrane (0.1 microm pore size) at 25 degrees C.
Radiation induced graft copolymerization is pure, sterile and additive free method for the synthesis of hydrogels for biomedical applications. In the present work, attempt has been made to prepare the biocompatible, mucoadhesive hydrogels based on natural polysaccharide sterculia gum and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) for use as drug delivery devices. The effect of gamma radiation on swelling and various network parameters of hydrogels such as the polymer volume fraction in the swollen state (varphi), molecular weight of the polymer chain between two neighboring cross links (M c), crosslink density (rho), and mesh size (xi) have been studied. Hydrogels have been characterized with scanning electron micrographs (SEMs), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), X-ray diffraction study (XRD), thermo gravimetric analysis (TGA) and swelling studies. Swelling and mesh size decreased while gel strength and crosslink density increased with increase in radiation dose. The swelling of hydrogels and release of drug ciprofloxacin from drug loaded hydrogels occurred through non-Fickian diffusion mechanism. These hydrogels have been observed to have non-thrombogenic, haemo-compatible and mucoadhesive nature and could be used as mucoadhesive drug delivery system to deliver drug to gastro intestinal tract (GIT) in controlled manner.
There is an increased need to develop robust cellular model systems which could replace or reduce the need for animals in toxicological testing. Current in vitro strategies for genotoxicity testing suffer from a high irrelevant positive rate, requiring the need for the development of new in vitro tools. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is used widely to study DNA damage and repair, and a high-throughput green fluorescent protein based assay has been developed to detect genotoxic-induced DNA damage. In this study a combined high resolution (1)H NMR spectroscopy and gas chromatography mass spectrometry based metabolomic approach has been used to monitor and distinguish different genotoxic compounds from other types of toxic lesion using the multivariate classification tool partial least squares-discriminate analysis (PLS-DA). The metabolic profiles of extracts of yeast (W303alpha strain) readily distinguished the individual toxins from control cells across 22 different treatments. In addition, these metabolic profiles also demonstrated dose and time responses for selected compounds (methyl methane sulfonate and nocodazole). Finally, predictive models were built for distinguishing the genotoxic carcinogens from the control group according to the metabolic profile of the cell culture media.
Treated with low dosage staurosporine, the normal cell 2 BS were arrested in G 1 phase, but tumor cell BGC-823 were not. We measured the intracellular calcium, calmodulin, Ca(2+)-activited calmodulin (Ca(2+)-CaM) contents of single cells according to cell cycle with microphotometry. Our results showed that treatment of 5 ng/ml staurosporine for 18 h caused the changes of calcium and calmodulin. In 2 BS cells, CaM leval decreased in G 1 and S phase. In each cell cycle phase of BGC-823 cells, there was no changes in CaM level, but Ca(2+)-CaM level increased. The causes of that staurosporine blocked 2 BS cells at G 1 phase but not effected on cell cycle progression in BGC-823 cells may be the results of staurosporine decreased the contents of CaM at G 1 phase and inhibited the phosphoralation of p107 in 2 BS cells.
AIM: To develop a reliable method for measuring urease activity in live bacteria, and to determine whether there are any differences in urease activity among the Helicobacter pylori strains involved in gastroduodenal disease. DESIGN: The stability of the method was examined in the first phase of the study, and in a second phase the mean urease activity in clinical isolates from different groups of patients was compared. MATERIALS AND METHODS: To assess the stability and reliability of the method, we assessed the relationship between bacterial proliferation and urease activity, the relationship between the number of bacteria and the optical density, and differences in urease activity among bacterial generations. Ten of the 3-day-old colonies in the third generation were suspended in phosphate-buffered saline, and urease activity was measured as 10(5) colony-forming units/ml bacteria. RESULTS: The assay system appeared to be effective, because the urease activity of live bacteria in the logarithmic growth period was constant, the number of bacteria and the optical density showed a linear correlation on a bilogarithmic graph and there was no significant difference in urease activity over three generations. With this method, urease activity varied from 0.192 to 80.42 mIU/10(5) colony-forming units of bacteria/ml. There was no significant difference in the mean urease activity of live bacteria from controls, gastric ulcer patients and duodenal ulcer patients. However, the mean urease activity in bacteria from cancer patients was significantly higher than that of controls or duodenal ulcer patients. CONCLUSIONS: H. pylori strains derived from cancer patients, which have relatively high levels of urease activity, might easily colonize the stomach and lead to much mucosal damage during the long course of H. pylori infection.
Semiparametric methods are well established for the analysis of a progressive Markov illness-death process observed up to a noninformative right censoring time. However, often the intermediate and terminal events are censored in different ways, leading to a dual censoring scheme. In such settings, unbiased estimation of the cumulative transition intensity functions cannot be achieved without some degree of smoothing. To overcome this problem, we develop a sieve maximum likelihood approach for inference on the hazard ratio. A simulation study shows that the sieve estimator offers improved finite-sample performance over common imputation-based alternatives and is robust to some forms of dependent censoring. The proposed method is illustrated using data from cancer trials.
High temperature (32 to 33 degrees C) has been shown to reduce mortality in white spot syndrome virus (WSSV)-infected shrimps, but the mechanism still remains unclear. Here we show that in WSSV-infected shrimps cultured at 32 degrees C, transcriptional levels of representative immediate-early, early, and late genes were initially higher than those at 25 degrees C. However, neither the IE1 nor VP28 protein was detected at 32 degrees C, suggesting that high temperature might inhibit WSSV protein synthesis. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis revealed two proteins, NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) and the proteasome alpha 4 subunit (proteasome alpha4), that were markedly upregulated in WSSV-infected shrimps at 32 degrees C. Reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) analysis of members of the heat shock protein family also showed that hsp70 was upregulated at 32 degrees C. When aldh, proteasome alpha4, and hsp70 were knocked down by double-stranded RNA interference and shrimps were challenged with WSSV, the aldh and hsp70 knockdown shrimps became severely infected at 32 degrees C, while the proteasome alpha4 knockdown shrimps remained uninfected. Our results therefore suggest that ALDH and Hsp70 both play an important role in the inhibition of WSSV replication at high temperature.
Staphylococcal bacteria, including Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus, cause chronic biofilm-related infections. The homologous proteins Aap and SasG mediate biofilm formation in S. epidermidis and S. aureus, respectively. The self-association of these proteins in the presence of Zn(2+) leads to the formation of extensive adhesive contacts between cells. This study reports the crystal structure of a Zn(2+) -bound construct from the self-associating region of Aap. Several unusual structural features include elongated beta-sheets that are solvent-exposed on both faces and the lack of a canonical hydrophobic core. Zn(2+)-dependent dimers are observed in three distinct crystal forms, formed via pleomorphic coordination of Zn(2+) in trans across the dimer interface. These structures illustrate how a long, flexible surface protein is able to form tight intercellular adhesion sites under adverse environmental conditions.
There is emerging evidence that cystic fibrosis lung disease begins early in infancy. Newborn screening allows early detection and surveillance of pulmonary disease and the possibility of early intervention in this life-shortening condition. We report two children with cystic fibrosis who underwent a comprehensive assessment from diagnosis that included measurement of lung function, limited-slice high-resolution CT and BAL performed annually. Early aggressive surveillance enabled significant lung disease and bronchiectasis to be detected during the first few years of life and led to a change in management, highlighting a clinical role for CT scanning during the preschool years in children with cystic fibrosis.
Modulation of the gut microbiota is an area of growing interest, particularly for its link to improving and maintaining the systemic health of the host. It has been suggested to have potential to reduce risk factors associated with chronic diseases, such as elevated cholesterol levels in coronary heart disease (CHD). Diets of our evolutionary ancestors were largely based on plant foods, high in dietary fiber and fermentable substrate, and our gut microbiota has evolved against a background of such diets. Therapeutic diets that mimic plant-based diets from the early phases of human evolution may result in drug-like cholesterol reductions. In contrast, typical Western diets low in dietary fiber and fermentable substrate, and high in saturated and trans fatty acids, are likely contributors to the increased need for pharmacological agents for cholesterol reduction. The gut microbiota of those consuming a Western diet are likely underutilized and depleted of metabolic fuels, resulting in a less than optimal gut microbial profile. As a result, this diet is mismatched to our archaic gut microbiota and, therefore, to our genome, which has changed relatively little since humans first appeared. While the exact mechanism by which the gut microbiota may modulate cholesterol levels still remains uncertain, end products of bacterial fermentation, particularly the short chain fatty acids (i.e., propionate), have been suggested as potential candidates. While more research is required to clarify the potential link between gut microbiota and CHD risk reduction, consuming a therapeutic diet rich in plant foods, dietary fiber, and fermentable substrate would be a useful strategy for improving systemic health, possibly by altering the gut microbiota.
OBJECTIVE: Cellular efflux transporters, especially P-glycoprotein (P-gp), impel berberine (BBR) out of cells, and therefore reduce bioavailability of the compound. This study was designed to overcome efflux of BBR using P-gp as a target. MATERIALS/METHODS: Molecular docking study was done to identify BBR analogues that were with low affinity to P-gp. Flow cytometry was used to determine cellular efflux of chemicals. Pharmacokinetic study was performed in Wistar rats, following oral administration of the study compounds. The efficacies of chemicals on glucose homeostasis were determined both in cultured cells and diabetic KK-Ay and db/db mice. RESULTS: In the molecular docking study, we found that among BBR analogues pseudo-berberine (IMB-Y53) has low affinity to P-gp. IMB-Y53 was retained in Caco-2, HL-7702 and C2C12 cells for a significantly longer period of time than BBR did. P-gp inhibitor tetrandrine (Tet) abolished the efflux of BBR at different extent depending on the expression level of P-gp; however, Tet had no impact on IMB-Y53 efflux. BBR increased P-gp expression dose-dependently in intestinal and liver cells; IMB-Y53 also up-regulated P-gp but at a much lower level as compared with BBR. Administered at equal dose in rats, the maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and area under concentration-time curve (AUC(0-24)) of IMB-Y53 were 1.61 and 2.27-fold of those of BBR, respectively, indicating an improved bioavailability. IMB-Y53 stimulated glucose utility in cultured cells with a degree similar to that of BBR, but exhibited enhanced glucose-lowering efficacy in KK-Ay and db/db diabetic mice. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that overcoming cellular efflux especially P-gp's function improves bioavailability and hypoglycemic effect of BBR.
We looked for a feedback system in Escherichia coli that might sense the rotational bias of flagellar motors and regulate the activity of the chemotaxis receptor kinase. Our search was based on the assumption that any machinery that senses rotational bias will be perturbed if flagellar rotation stops. We monitored the activity of the kinase in swimming cells by bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) between Renilla luciferase fused to the phosphatase, CheZ, and yellow fluorescent protein fused to the response regulator, CheY. Then we jammed the flagellar motors by adding an antifilament antibody that crosslinks adjacent filaments in flagellar bundles. At steady state, the rate of phosphorylation of CheY is equal to the rate of dephosphorylation of CheY-P, which is proportional to the degree of association between CheZ and CheY-P, the quantity sensed by BRET. No changes were observed, even upon addition of an amount of antibody that stopped the swimming of >95% of cells within a few seconds. So, the kinase does not appear to be sensitive to motor output. The BRET technique is complementary to one based on FRET, described previously. Its reliability was confirmed by measurements of the response of cells to the addition of attractants.
OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the effect of bone morphometric changes on orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) in zoledronic acid-treated ovariectomized rats. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-one 10-week-old female Wistar rats were divided into ovariectomy (OVX), OVX with zoledronic acid administration (OVX + ZOL), and sham operation (control) groups. Two weeks after OVX, ZOL administration was initiated. Twelve weeks after OVX, a nickel-titanium closed-coil spring of 25-g force was applied mesially to the maxillary left first molar. In vivo micro-computed tomography (CT) of the left proximal tibia was performed for bone morphometric analysis every 2 weeks after OVX. In addition, OTM was investigated using micro-CT at 0, 12, and 14 weeks after OVX. RESULTS: There were significant differences in the bone mineral content (BMC), bone volume (BV), BMC to tissue volume ratio (BMC/TV), and BV to TV ratio of trabecular bone between the control and OVX groups and also between the OVX + ZOL and OVX groups. In the OVX + ZOL group, increased BMC and BV in the cortical bone and increased bone mineral density (BMD) in the trabecular bone were observed. Interestingly, OTM in the OVX group was almost two times more than that in the control and OVX + ZOL groups. Moreover, OTM was correlated with BMD, BMC, BV, and BMC/TV in the trabecular bone. CONCLUSIONS: OVX accelerated OTM, while ZOL suppressed it. OTM demonstrated a significant negative relationship with trabecular bone mass.
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia represents a lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma with an indolent clinical course. The existing literature associates this hematologic malignancy with various autoimmune disorders. Notwithstanding, these autoimmune conditions have not been comprehensively characterized or systematized to date. As a result, their clinical implications remain largely unknown. The authors offer a comprehensive review of the existing literature on various hematologic and nonhematologic autoimmune disorders documented in the course of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia. Whereas some of them are thought to be secondary to a dysfunctional immune response associated with an underlying malignant process, others might be primary and might even play a role in its pathogenesis. Moreover, the observations that personal history and family history of certain autoimmune diseases were associated with an increased risk of subsequent Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia strengthen further the hypothesis that shared susceptibility genes and chronic antigenic stimulation might predispose individuals to both conditions.
Induction of mRNA for BIK proapoptotic protein by doxorubicin or gamma-irradiation requires the DNA-binding transcription factor activity of p53. In MCF7 cells, pure antiestrogen fulvestrant also induces BIK mRNA and apoptosis. Here, we provide evidence that, in contrast to doxorubicin or gamma-irradiation, fulvestrant induction of BIK mRNA is not a direct effect of the transcriptional activity of p53, although p53 is necessary for this induction. It is known that p53 up-regulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) mRNA is induced directly by the transcriptional activity of p53. Whereas gamma-irradiation induced both BIK and PUMA mRNA, only BIK mRNA was induced by fulvestrant. Whereas both fulvestrant and doxorubicin induced BIK mRNA, only doxorubicin enhanced the DNA-binding activity of p53 and induced PUMA mRNA. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) suppression of p53 expression as well as overexpression of dominant-negative p53 effectively inhibited the fulvestrant induction of BIK mRNA, protein, and apoptosis. Transcriptional activity of a 2-kb BIK promoter, which contained an incomplete p53-binding sequence, was not affected by fulvestrant when tested by reporter assay. Fulvestrant neither affected the stability of the BIK mRNA transcripts. Interestingly, other human breast cancer cells, such as ZR75-1, constitutively expressed BIK mRNA even without fulvestrant. In these cells, however, BIK protein seemed to be rapidly degraded by proteasome, and siRNA suppression of BIK in ZR75-1 cells inhibited apoptosis induced by MG132 proteasome inhibitor. These results suggest that expression of BIK in human breast cancer cells is regulated at the mRNA level by a mechanism involving a nontranscriptional activity of p53 and by proteasomal degradation of BIK protein.
OBJECTIVE: To review animal and human data available regarding the etiology, maternal and fetal impact, and treatment of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP). METHODS: Pertinent studies on human and animal models of ICP were selected through a MEDLINE database search, focusing on etiology and clinical impact of the disease. Analytic and descriptive studies were included, and the data were analyzed looking for crude numbers. RESULTS: Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is a pregnancy-specific disorder. Its prevalence is higher in Chile and Sweden compared with any other population. Its etiology is largely unknown, although endocrine, genetic, and environmental factors have been postulated as responsible for the appearance of the disease. Maternal effects of ICP are mild; however, there is a clear association between ICP and poor perinatal outcome, including a higher frequency of fetal distress, preterm labor and delivery, and unexplained fetal death. The treatment is mainly symptomatic. Recent data suggest that oral use of ursodeoxycholic acid improves maternal condition and might prevent the fetal complications of ICP. CONCLUSIONS: Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy should be considered a high-risk condition, and careful fetal assessment and appropriate medical intervention might improve perinatal outcome.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether a history of smoking or smoking during therapy after external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) for clinically localised prostate cancer is associated with increased treatment-related toxicity or disease progression. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Of 2358 patients receiving EBRT for prostate cancer between 1988 and 2005, 2156 had chart-recorded smoking histories. Patients were classified as 'never smokers', 'current smokers', 'former smokers', and 'current smoking unknown'. Variables considered included quantity of tobacco use in pack-years, duration of smoking, and, for former smokers, how long before initiation of RT the patient quit smoking, when available. The median EBRT dose was 8100 Gy and the median follow-up was 95 months. Toxicity was graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. RESULTS: Current smoking significantly increased the risks of both prostate-specific antigen relapse [hazard ratio (HR) 1.4, P = 0.02] and distant metastases (HR 2.37, P < 0.001), as well as prostate cancer-specific death (HR 2.25, P < 0.001). Multivariate analysis showed that smoking was also associated with increased risk of EBRT-related genitourinary toxicities (current smoker, HR 1.8, P = 0.02; former smoker, HR 1.45, P = 0.01). Smoking did not increase gastrointestinal toxicity. CONCLUSIONS: Current smokers with prostate cancer are at increased risk of biochemical recurrence, distant metastasis, and prostate cancer-related mortality after definitive RT to the prostate. Current and former smokers, regardless of duration and quantity of exposure, are at an increased risk of long-term genitourinary toxicity after EBRT. Oncologists should encourage patients to participate in smoking-cessation programmes before therapy to potentially lower their risk of relapsing disease and post-treatment toxicities.
The gene encoding the catalytic domain of thermostable xylanase from Clostridium thermocellum F1 was expressed in rice plants under the control of a constitutive promoter. The gene encoding Xylanase A was modified to encode the catalytic domain of family 11 xylanase without the signal sequence (xynA1), and was introduced into rice plants and expressed under the control of a modified cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Zymogram analysis indicated that the recombinant xylanase was produced in rice plants. The xynA1 gene was stably expressed in rice straw and seed grains. No phenotypic effect of xylanase expression was noted. The enzyme was detected in the desiccated grain. High levels of enzyme activity were maintained in the cell-free extract during incubation at 60 degrees C for 24 h. The results indicated that high levels of xylanase can be produced in rice plants.
Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) are extremely poisonous protein toxins that cause the fatal paralytic disease botulism. They are naturally produced in bacteria with several nontoxic neurotoxin-associated proteins (NAPs) and together they form a progenitor toxin complex (PTC), the largest bacterial toxin complex known. In foodborne botulism, the PTC functions as a molecular machine that helps BoNT breach the host defense in the gut. Here, we discuss the substantial recent advance in elucidating the atomic structures and assembly of the 14-subunit PTC, including structures of BoNT and four NAPs. These structural studies shed light on the molecular mechanisms by which BoNT is protected against the acidic environment and proteolytic destruction in the gastrointestinal tract, and how it is delivered across the intestinal epithelial barrier.
Autoimmune pancreatitis (AIP) is the pancreatic manifestation of a systemic fibroinflammatory disease (IgG4-related systemic disease) in which affected organs demonstrate dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltration with abundant IgG4-positive cells. The diagnosis of AIP and its differentiation from pancreatic cancer, its main differential diagnosis, remains a clinical challenge. The five cardinal features of AIP are characteristic histology, imaging, and serology; other organ involvement; and response to steroid therapy. Recent advances in our understanding of these features have resulted in enhanced recognition and diagnosis of this benign disease. This in turn has resulted in the avoidance of unnecessary surgical procedures for suspected malignancy. This article reviews recent updates in the diagnosis and treatment of autoimmune pancreatitis.
The use of direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) for prophylactic or therapeutic anticoagulation is increasing because of the predictable bioavailability and short half-life of these DTIs. However, in certain situations, indication of the concentration is warranted. We investigated the effects of 3 DTIs (lepirudin, argatroban, and bivalirudin) in 6 pooled plasma specimens on routine coagulation assays (activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT], prothrombin time [PT], and thrombin time [TT]) and dedicated DTI assays (Hemoclot, HemosIL, the ecarin clotting time, and a chromogenic ecarin clotting time) on 2 coagulation analyzers. We found routine tests to be nondiscriminative between concentrations of different DTIs in the aPTT. Moreover, for PT and TT, the responses for different DTIs differed. This was similar for ecarin clotting assays. The Hemoclot and HemosIL assays showed identical linear increases for all 3 DTIs. We conclude that dedicated calibrated assays based on a diluted TT (Hemoclot and HemosIL) appear to be the most suitable for monitoring purposes.
The ability to take action in the face of threat is highly diverse across individuals. What are the neural processes that determine individual differences in the ability to cope with danger? We hypothesized that the extent of synchronization between amygdala, striatum, and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) would predict successful active coping performance. To test this, we developed a novel computer task based on the principals of Sidman avoidance. Healthy human participants learned through trial and error to move a marker between virtual game board compartments once every 3 s to avoid mild shocks. Behaviorally, participants exhibited large individual differences. Strikingly, both amygdala-mPFC and caudate-mPFC coupling during active coping trials covaried with final active coping performance across participants. These findings indicate that synchronization between mPFC subregions, and both amygdala and caudate predicts whether individuals will achieve successful active coping performance by the end of training. Thus, successful performance of adaptive actions in the face of threat requires functional synchronization of a neural circuit consisting of mPFC, striatum, and amygdala. Malfunction in the crosstalk between these components might underlie anxiety symptoms and impair individuals' ability to actively cope under stress. This opens an array of possibilities for therapeutic targets for fear and anxiety disorders.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is a human malignancy consistently associated with the Epstein-Barr virus. Exposure to non-viral carcinogens and genetic predisposition are other crucial etiologic factors. Tumor development appears to require the expression of a small subset of transforming viral RNAs and proteins with concomitant silencing of most other viral genes. Impairment of the interactions of viral proteins with cellular partners or disruption of viral latency might prove to be useful for novel therapeutic strategies.
This study investigated the influence of exercise-induced dehydration on alcohol pharmacokinetics, subjective ratings of impairment, and risk-taking behaviours. Twelve male volunteers participated in 3 experimental trials completed in a randomised cross over design separated by at least 7 days. In one trial, participants exercised to cause dehydration of ~2.5% body weight loss. For the other trials, participants were required to be in a rested and euhydrated state. A set volume of alcohol was then consumed in each trial and participants were monitored over a 4h period. Blood (BAC) and breath (BrAC) alcohol samples were collected throughout and analysed to calculate pharmacokinetic variables associated with the blood alcohol curve. Total urine production, estimates of BrAC, and subjective ratings of intoxication and impairment were also recorded throughout each trial. No difference was found in the pharmacokinetics of alcohol between any of the trial conditions. BrACs were higher than BACs for 2h following alcohol consumption, but lower at measures taken 3 and 4 h post ingestion. Participants' ratings of confusion and intoxication were significantly lower, and they were more willing to drive in the dehydration trial compared with one of the euhydration trials. These findings suggest that dehydration or other physiological changes associated with exercise may have an ability to influence the subjective effects of alcohol and increase the likelihood of risk-taking behaviours such as drink-driving. However, further research is required to examine the effects of alcohol under conditions of exercise-induced fluid loss in order to clarify these findings.
Morphological dynamics of mitochondria is associated with key cellular processes related to aging and neuronal degenerative diseases, but the lack of standard quantification of mitochondrial morphology impedes systematic investigation. This paper presents an automated system for the quantification and classification of mitochondrial morphology. We discovered six morphological subtypes of mitochondria for objective quantification of mitochondrial morphology. These six subtypes are small globules, swollen globules, straight tubules, twisted tubules, branched tubules and loops. The subtyping was derived by applying consensus clustering to a huge collection of more than 200 thousand mitochondrial images extracted from 1422 micrographs of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells treated with different drugs, and was validated by evidence of functional similarity reported in the literature. Quantitative statistics of subtype compositions in cells is useful for correlating drug response and mitochondrial dynamics. Combining the quantitative results with our biochemical studies about the effects of squamocin on CHO cells reveals new roles of Caspases in the regulatory mechanisms of mitochondrial dynamics. This system is not only of value to the mitochondrial field, but also applicable to the investigation of other subcellular organelle morphology.
Cardiac ATP-sensitive K+ (K(ATP)) channels are formed by Kir6.2 and SUR2A subunits. We produced transgenic mice that express dominant negative Kir6.x pore-forming subunits (Kir6.1-AAA or Kir6.2-AAA) in cardiac myocytes by driving their expression with the alpha-myosin heavy chain promoter. Weight gain and development after birth of these mice were similar to nontransgenic mice, but an increased mortality was noted after the age of 4-5 mo. Transgenic mice lacked cardiac K(ATP) channel activity as assessed with patch clamp techniques. Consistent with a decreased current density observed at positive voltages, the action potential duration was increased in these mice. Some myocytes developed EADs after isoproterenol treatment. Hemodynamic measurements revealed no significant effects on ventricular function (apart from a slightly elevated heart rate), whereas in vivo electrophysiological recordings revealed a prolonged ventricular effective refractory period in transgenic mice. The transgenic mice tolerated stress less well as evident from treadmill stress tests. The proarrhythmogenic features and lack of adaptation to a stress response in transgenic mice suggest that these features are intrinsic to the myocardium and that K(ATP) channels in the myocardium have an important role in protecting the heart from lethal arrhythmias and adaptation to stress situations.
OBJECTIVE: This paper reviews the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) literature on the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure on the developing human brain. METHOD: A literature search was conducted through the following databases: PubMed, PsycINFO and Google Scholar. Combinations of the following search terms and keywords were used to identify relevant studies: 'alcohol', 'fetal alcohol spectrum disorders', 'fetal alcohol syndrome', 'FAS', 'FASD', 'MRI', 'DTI', 'MRS', 'neuroimaging', 'children' and 'infants'. RESULTS: A total of 64 relevant articles were identified across all modalities. Overall, studies reported smaller total brain volume as well as smaller volume of both the white and grey matter in specific cortical regions. The most consistently reported structural MRI findings were alterations in the shape and volume of the corpus callosum, as well as smaller volume in the basal ganglia and hippocampi. The most consistent finding from diffusion tensor imaging studies was lower fractional anisotropy in the corpus callosum. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies are few to date, but showed altered neurometabolic profiles in the frontal and parietal cortex, thalamus and dentate nuclei. Resting-state functional MRI studies reported reduced functional connectivity between cortical and deep grey matter structures. Discussion There is a critical gap in the literature of MRI studies in alcohol-exposed children under 5 years of age across all MRI modalities. The dynamic nature of brain maturation and appreciation of the effects of alcohol exposure on the developing trajectory of the structural and functional network argue for the prioritisation of studies that include a longitudinal approach to understanding this spectrum of effects and potential therapeutic time points.
Mutants with various levels of resistance to streptothricin were isolated from Escherichia coli K12, strain A19 after mutagenesis with N-methyl-N-nitro-N-nitroso-guanidine and ethylmethane-sulfonate. Nourseothricin, a mixture of streptothricin F and D was the selection agent. Spontaneous resistant mutants could not be found. The streptothricin-resistant mutant E. coli A19 Stcr 2/2/1 shows cross-resistance to some of the aminoglycoside antibiotics investigated, but no cross-resistance to chloramphenicol and chlortetracyclin. These results indicate similar mechanisms of action of streptothricin and aminoglycoside antibiotics.
Acne is a common condition among adolescents and has the potential to negatively impact on the psychological well-being of those who suffer from it. In particular, depression and suicidal ideation are more common in adolescents with acne. Successful treatment of acne can improve the quality of life and reduce levels of anxiety and depression in these individuals. The current treatment of choice for severe or refractive acne is isotretinoin, a retinoid. While the possible causal association between isotretinoin and mental illness remains a controversial topic, a recent systematic review has presented evidence to support this relationship. In light of this evidence, a group of dermatologists and psychiatrists have collaborated to develop these recommendations to aid the safe prescribing of isotretinoin in adolescents. These clinical suggestions are aimed at practitioners in both disciplines to increase awareness of the current evidence in support of the association between isotretinoin and adolescent depression.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transformed B-cells from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and healthy controls were analysed for reactivity with the HLA-DQ-specific human-human hybridoma Ab TrB12 (anti-DQw6 + DQw8 + DQw9) by indirect immunofluorescence (IIF). Positive results were obtained with 34 out of 35 MS patients (97.1%) and 79 out of 106 controls (74.5%) (p less than 0.005, RR = 11.6). Thus, DQ molecules that express the TrB12 epitope may contribute to the susceptibility to develop MS.
In the honey bee (Apis mellifera), social organization is primarily mediated by pheromones. Queen-produced 9-oxo-2-decenoic acid (9-ODA) functions as both a social and sex pheromone, eliciting attraction in both female workers and male drones, but also affecting other critical aspects of worker physiology and behavior. These effects are also maturation related, as younger workers and sexually mature drones are most receptive to 9-ODA. While changes in the peripheral nervous system drive sex-related differences in sensitivity to 9-ODA, the mechanisms driving maturation-related shifts in receptivity to 9-ODA remain unknown. Here, we investigate the hypothesis that changes at the peripheral nervous system may be mediating plastic responses to 9-ODA by characterizing expression levels of AmOR11 (the olfactory receptor tuned to 9-ODA) and electrophysiological responses to 9-ODA. We find that receptor expression correlates significantly with behavioral receptivity to 9-ODA, with nurses and sexually mature drones exhibiting higher levels of expression than foragers and immature drones, respectively. Electrophysiological responses to 9-ODA were not found to correlate with behavioral receptivity or receptor expression, however. Thus, while receptor expression at the periphery exhibits a level of plasticity that correlates with behavior, the mechanisms driving maturation-dependent responsiveness to 9-ODA appear to function primarily in the central nervous system.
Rice is sensitive to cold and can be grown only in certain climate zones. Human selection of japonica rice has extended its growth zone to regions with lower temperature, while the molecular basis of this adaptation remains unknown. Here, we identify the quantitative trait locus COLD1 that confers chilling tolerance in japonica rice. Overexpression of COLD1(jap) significantly enhances chilling tolerance, whereas rice lines with deficiency or downregulation of COLD1(jap) are sensitive to cold. COLD1 encodes a regulator of G-protein signaling that localizes on plasma membrane and endoplasmic reticulum (ER). It interacts with the G-protein alpha subunit to activate the Ca(2+) channel for sensing low temperature and to accelerate G-protein GTPase activity. We further identify that a SNP in COLD1, SNP2, originated from Chinese Oryza rufipogon, is responsible for the ability of COLD(jap/ind) to confer chilling tolerance, supporting the importance of COLD1 in plant adaptation.
Burkholderia cepacia DBO1 is able to utilize phthalate as the sole source of carbon and energy for growth. Two overlapping cosmid clones containing the genes for phthalate degradation were isolated from this strain. Subcloning and activity analysis localized the genes for phthalate degradation to two separate regions on the cosmid clones. Analysis of the nucleotide sequence of these two regions showed that the genes for phthalate degradation are arranged in at least three transcriptional units. The gene for phthalate dioxygenase reductase (ophA1) is present by itself, while the genes for an inactive transporter (ophD) and 4,5-dihydroxyphthalate decarboxylase (ophC) are linked and the genes for phthalate dioxygenase oxygenase (ophA2) and cis-phthalate dihydrodiol dehydrogenase (ophB) are linked. ophA1 and ophDC are adjacent to each other but are transcribed in opposite directions, while ophA2B is located 4 kb away. The genes for the oxygenase and reductase components of phthalate dioxygenase are located approximately 7 kb away from each other. The gene for the putative phthalate permease contains a frameshift mutation in contrast to genes for other permeases. Strains deleted for ophD are able to transport phthalate into the cell at rates equivalent to that of the wild-type organism, showing that this gene is not required for growth on phthalate.
The Pharmacoepidemiological Research on Outcomes of Therapeutics by a European ConsorTium (PROTECT) initiative was a collaborative European project that sought to address limitations of current methods in the field of pharmacoepidemiology and pharmacovigilance. Initiated in 2009 and ending in 2015, PROTECT was part of the Innovative Medicines Initiative, a joint undertaking by the European Union and pharmaceutical industry. Thirty-five partners including academics, regulators, small and medium enterprises, and European Federation of Pharmaceuticals Industries and Associations companies contributed to PROTECT. Two work packages within PROTECT implemented research examining the extent to which differences in the study design, methodology, and choice of data source can contribute to producing discrepant results from observational studies on drug safety. To evaluate the effect of these differences, the project applied different designs and analytic methodology for six drug-adverse event pairs across several electronic healthcare databases and registries. This papers introduces the organizational structure and procedures of PROTECT, including how drug-adverse event and data sources were selected, study design and analyses documents were developed, and results managed centrally.
INTRODUCTION: Inorganic arsenic and its metabolites are considered dangerous to human health. Although several studies have reported associations between low-level arsenic exposure and diabetes mellitus in the United States and Mexico, this association has not been studied in the Canadian population. We evaluated the association between arsenic exposure, as measured by total arsenic concentration in urine, and the prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) in 3151 adult participants in Cycle 1 (2007-2009) of the Canadian Health Measures Survey (CHMS). METHODS: All participants were tested to determine blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin. Urine analysis was also performed to measure total arsenic. In addition, participants answered a detailed questionnaire about their lifestyle and medical history. We assessed the association between urinary arsenic levels and T2D and prediabetes using multivariate logistic regression while adjusting for potential confounders. RESULTS: Total urinary arsenic concentration was positively associated with the prevalence of T2D and prediabetes: adjusted odds ratios were 1.81 (95% CI: 1.12-2.95) and 2.04 (95% CI: 1.03-4.05), respectively, when comparing the highest (fourth) urinary arsenic concentration quartile with the lowest (first) quartile. Total urinary arsenic was also associated with glycated hemoglobin levels in people with untreated diabetes. CONCLUSION: We found significant associations between arsenic exposure and the prevalence of T2D and prediabetes in the Canadian population. Causal inference is limited due to the cross-sectional design of the study and the absence of long-term exposure assessment.
The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) initiates receptor signaling and early actin dynamics during viral entry. This process is required for viral infection of primary targets such as resting CD4 T cells. WAVE2 is a component of a multiprotein complex linking receptor signaling to dynamic remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton. WAVE2 directly activates Arp2/3, leading to actin nucleation and filament branching. Although several bacterial and viral pathogens target Arp2/3 for intracellular mobility, it remains unknown whether HIV-1 actively modulates the Arp2/3 complex through virus-mediated receptor signal transduction. Here we report that HIV-1 triggers WAVE2 phosphorylation at serine 351 through gp120 binding to the chemokine coreceptor CXCR4 or CCR5 during entry. This phosphorylation event involves both Galphai-dependent and -independent pathways, and is conserved both in X4 and R5 viral infection of resting CD4 T cells and primary macrophages. We further demonstrate that inhibition of WAVE2-mediated Arp2/3 activity through stable shRNA knockdown of Arp3 dramatically diminished HIV-1 infection of CD4 T cells, preventing viral nuclear migration. Inhibition of Arp2/3 through a specific inhibitor, CK548, also drastically inhibited HIV-1 nuclear migration and infection of CD4 T cells. Our results suggest that Arp2/3 and the upstream regulator, WAVE2, are essential co-factors hijacked by HIV for intracellular migration, and may serve as novel targets to prevent HIV transmission.
OBJECTIVES: Limited information is available concerning the post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio in critical limb ischemia patients who receive conservative therapy. Accordingly, this study was designed to evaluate the predictive value of the post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio in critical limb ischemia patients without surgery. METHOD: From January 2009 to January 2011, critical limb ischemia patients were admitted to a vascular center. The demographic data, patient histories, comorbidities and risk factors were documented, and the differential cell count was determined at admission and seven days later after conservative therapy. The cutoff value of the post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio was determined by an ROC curve. Patients were divided into groups A and B according to the cutoff value. Amputation-free survival was compared between groups. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to identify independent risk factors. RESULT: A total of 172 patients were identified with a mean age 71.98+/-10.09 years; among them, 122 were male. A value of 3.8 was identified as the cutoff value of the post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio. Groups A (post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio >/=3.8) and B (post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio <3.8) showed a significant difference in amputation-free survival (P<0.001). The 1-year, 2-year and 3-year amputation-free survival rates were 79.6%, 55.6% and 46.3%, respectively, in group A; however, in group B, these values were 89.7%, 79.3% and 75.9%, respectively. The post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio was identified as an independent predictive factor for amputation in critical limb ischemia patients (P<0.001). CONCLUSION: The post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio is an independent predictive factor for amputation in critical limb ischemia patients. Patients with a post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio >/=3.8 are likely to suffer from amputation; amputation-free survival usually occurs in patients with a post-treatment neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio <3.8.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based tests for various microorganisms or target DNA sequences are generally acknowledged to be highly "sensitive," yet the concept of sensitivity is ill-defined in the literature on these tests. We propose that sensitivity should be expressed as a function of the number of target DNA molecules in the sample (or specificity, when the target number is 0). However, estimating this "sensitivity curve" is problematic, since it is difficult to construct samples with a fixed number of targets. Nonetheless, using serially diluted replicate aliquots of a known concentration of the target DNA sequence, we show that it is possible to disentangle random variations in the number of target DNA molecules from the underlying test sensitivity. We develop parametric, nonparametric, and semiparametric (spline-based) models for the sensitivity curve. The methods are compared on a new test for M. genitalium.
We are beginning to understand the molecular biology of hydrocephalus and its related diseases. X-linked hydrocephalus (XLH), holoprosencephaly (HPE), Dandy-Walker malformation (DWM), and neural tube defect (NTD) can all be discussed with respect to their available molecular genetics knowledge base and its clinical applications. XLH is single gene disorder caused by mutations in the neural cell adhesion molecule-encoding L1CAM (L1) gene. Our knowledge of the molecular basis of XLH is already being applied clinically in disease diagnosis, disease classification, and prenatal diagnosis. However, the molecular mechanism underlying XLH-related hydrocephalus still needs to be clarified. Sixteen causative genes for HPE have been identified, of which mutations are most often found in SHH, ZIC2, SIX3, and TGIF. Genetic interactions, gene complexity, and the wide variety of HPE phenotypes and genotypes are topics for future study. For DWM, two important loci, 3q24, which includes the FOXC1 gene, and 6q25.3, which includes the ZIC1 and ZIC4 genes, were recently identified as causative areas. The planar cell polarity (PCP) genes CELSR1, CELSR2, VANGL1, and VANGL2 have been implicated in NTD; these genes have roles in neural tube closure and ependymal ciliary movement.
BACKGROUND: Cryptococcal infections of the CNS are infrequent in immunocompetent hosts. When present, they usually present as meningitis and hydrocephalus or as fungal masses called cryptococcomas. We report a case in which intraventricular cryptococcal cysts clinically and radiologically simulated the racemose form of neurocysticercosis. CASE DESCRIPTION: A 23-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 1-week history of severe headache, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, and some lethargy. A computed tomography scan revealed significant hydrocephalus. The patient was admitted to the hospital and immediately underwent a right ventriculostomy tube placement. CSF examination showed a meningitic pattern. Magnetic resonance imaging, including FLAIR images, showed multiple large cysts in the temporal horns of both lateral ventricles in addition to hydrocephalus. When an endoscopic left temporal cyst fenestration failed to decompress his trapped right temporal horn, he underwent placement of a left lateral ventricle to peritoneal shunt and a right temporal cyst to peritoneal shunt. ELISA test results for HIV-1 and -2 antibodies in the patient's serum were negative. His CD4 and CD8 counts were within normal limits. Multiple tests for CSF anticysticercal antibody using IgG ELISA gave unequivocally negative results. Latex agglutination tests detected Cryptococcus neoformans antigen in his CSF in titers of 1:1024, which progressively decreased in response to antifungal therapy. The patient underwent treatment with IV amphotericin B for 7 weeks, IV 5-FC for 2 weeks, and oral fluconazole for 5 weeks. At discharge, 3 consecutive CSF cultures were negative for bacteria and fungi. His neurologic status returned to baseline. CONCLUSIONS: Cryptococcal CNS infections in immunocompetent hosts can mimic the intraventricular form of racemose neurocysticercosis. Distinguishing between the two is essential because the medical management of the 2 conditions is distinct from each other.
Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a primary cutaneous neoplasm most commonly involving older adults. The cell of origin is thought to be the Merkel cell, a cutaneous neurosecretory cell. However, other neuroectodermal tumors may present in the skin and may be difficult to distinguish from MCC, including peripheral neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) and metastatic small cell carcinoma. We examined a primary cutaneous tumor of an 18-year-old which was strongly positive for cytokeratin (CK), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and 12E7, an antibody to the protein determined by the MIC2 gene. Electron microscopy showed paranuclear aggregates of filaments and no cytoplasmic processes. These findings were considered to be consistent with MCC. Cytogenetic analysis demonstrated 46,XX,der(1)t(1;3;22)(1qter-->pa34::3q28-->q11::22q 12--> qter),der(3)t(1;3)(3pter-->q11::1p35-->pter), der(22)t(3;22)(22pter-->q11::?3q29-->qter). This was confirmed by chromosome painting using probes for chromosomes 1, 3, and 22. Peripheral neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) show a characteristic translocation involving the same breakpoint on chromosome 22 that was present in this tumor. PNETs can also be CK and NSE positive. The MIC2 gene codes for a surface glycoprotein that has been shown to be very strongly and reliably expressed in PNETs, but not in other small round blue cell tumors and not in small cell carcinoma of the lung. However, MIC2 expression has not been studied in MCC. We investigated the use of MIC2 analysis in the distinction of MCC from PNET. Five additional MCCs were stained with the monoclonal 12E7 antibody, and one additional tumor showed the strong membranous positivity reported in PNETs. Our data suggest that MIC2 analysis may be useful in differentiating between MCC and PNET. However, cases will remain for which the distinction is elusive and cytogenetic analysis may be helpful.
BACKGROUND: Genetic factors are likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of intracranial, ascending thoracic aorta, and infrarenal aortic abdominal aneurysms. Common genetic risk factors for these three types of aneurysms have been suggested. This review describes the results of whole-genome linkage studies on intracranial, thoracic aorta, and aortic abdominal aneurysms, and compares the genomic loci identified in these studies in search of possible common genetic risk factors for the three aneurysmal types. METHODS: A literature search of all whole-genome linkage studies performed on intracranial, thoracic aorta, and aortic abdominal aneurysms was performed. The genomic loci identified in these studies were described and compared in search of similarities between them. RESULTS: Five chromosomal regions on 3p24-25, 4q32-34, 5q, 11q24, and 19q that may play a role in the pathogenesis of two or more aneurysmal types were identified: 3p24-25 for thoracic aorta and intracranial aneurysms; 4q32-34 for aortic abdominal and intracranial aneurysms; 5q for thoracic aorta and intracranial aneurysms; 11q24 for thoracic aorta, aortic abdominal, and intracranial aneurysms; and 19q for aortic abdominal and intracranial aneurysms. CONCLUSIONS: Five chromosomal regions that may include common genetic factors for intracranial, thoracic aorta, and aortic abdominal aneurysms were identified. Further studies are needed to explore these chromosomal regions in different aneurysm patient groups and may further help to unravel the disease pathogenesis of aneurysms in general.
Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) is endemic to sub-Saharan Africa. To further understand its complex epidemiology, which involves multiple virus serotypes and host species, we characterized the viruses recovered from FMD outbreaks in Ethiopia during 1981-2007. We detected 5 of the 7 FMDV serotypes (O, A, C, Southern African Territories [SAT] 1, and SAT 2). Serotype O predominated, followed by serotype A; type C was not recognized after 1983. Phylogenetic analysis of virus protein 1 sequences indicated emergence of a new topotype within serotype O, East Africa 4. In 2007, serotype SAT 1 was detected in Ethiopia and formed a new distinct topotype (IX), and serotype SAT 2 reappeared after an apparent gap of 16 years. The diversity of viruses highlights the role of this region as a reservoir for FMD virus, and their continuing emergence in Ethiopia will greatly affect spread and consequent control strategy of the disease on this continent.
Confined migration plays a fundamental role during several biological phenomena such as embryogenesis, immunity and tumorogenesis. Here, we propose a two-dimensional mechanical model to simulate the migration of a HeLa cell through a micro-channel. As in our previous works, the cell is modelled as a continuum and a standard Maxwell model is used to describe the mechanical behaviour of both the cytoplasm (including active strains) and the nucleus. The cell cyclically protrudes and contracts and develops viscous forces to adhere to the substrate. The micro-channel is represented by two rigid walls, and it exerts an additional viscous force on the cell boundaries. We test four channels whose dimensions in terms of width are i) larger than the cell diameter, ii) sub-cellular, ii) sub-nuclear and iv) much smaller than the nucleus diameter. The main objective of the work is to assess the necessary conditions for the cell to enter into the channel and migrate through it. Therefore, we evaluate both the evolution of the cell morphology and the cell-channel and cell-substrate surface forces, and we show that there exists a link between the two, which is the essential parameter determining whether the cell is permeative, invasive or penetrating.
Ectrodactyly-ectodermal dysplasia-clefting (EEC) syndrome associated with a paracentric inversion of chromosome 7 in a 2-year-old Japanese girl is reported. She had sparse and light-brown hair, bilateral cleft lip and palate, fused lower incisors, a pigmented skin lesion at the neck, accessory nipples, limited extension of elbow joints and bilateral ectrodactyly of hands and feet. Cytogenetic studies demonstrated a balanced inv(7)(q22.1;q36.3) in the patient and her father. The association of EEC syndrome and inv(7) in the patient suggested a putative locus of the EEC syndrome gene either at 7q22.1 or 7q36.3, although a coincidental occurrence of the two conditions is an alternative explanation. A comparison with reported karyotypes in patients with EEC or isolated ectrodactyly favoured 7q22.1 as the locus. A normal phenotype of the father in our family might reflect reduced penetrance of the EEC syndrome or, possibly, reduced expression of a maternally-derived allele of the EEC syndrome gene through a genomic imprinting mechanism.
BACKGROUND: Bovine Spastic Paresis (BSP) is a neuromuscular disorder which affects both male and female cattle. BSP is characterized by spastic contraction and overextension of the gastrocnemious muscle of one or both limbs and is associated with a scarce increase in body weight. This disease seems to be caused by an autosomal and recessive gene, with incomplete penetration, although no genes clearly involved with its onset have been so far identified. We employed cDNA microarrays to identify metabolic pathways affected by BSP in Romagnola cattle breed. Investigation of those pathways at the genome level can help to understand this disease. RESULTS: Microarray analysis of control and affected individuals resulted in 268 differentially expressed genes. These genes were subjected to KEGG pathway functional clustering analysis, revealing that they are predominantly involved in Cell Communication, Signalling Molecules and Interaction and Signal Transduction, Diseases and Nervous System classes. Significantly enriched KEGG pathway's classes for the differentially expressed genes were calculated; interestingly, all those significantly under-expressed in the affected samples are included in Neurodegenerative Diseases. To identify genome locations possibly harbouring gene(s) involved in the disease, the chromosome distribution of the differentially expressed genes was also investigated. CONCLUSIONS: The cDNA microarray we used in this study contains a brain library and, even if carrying an incomplete transcriptome representation, it has proven to be a valuable tool allowing us to add useful and new information to a poorly studied disease. By using this tool, we examined nearly 15000 transcripts and analysed gene pathways affected by the disease. Particularly, our data suggest also a defective glycinergic synaptic transmission in the development of the disease and an alteration of calcium signalling proteins. We provide data to acquire knowledge of a genetic disease for which literature still presents poor results and that could be further and specifically analysed in the next future. Moreover this study, performed in livestock, may also harbour molecular information useful for understanding human diseases.
BACKGROUND: Ethical problems are quoted as a reason not to perform clinical trials in children. Little is known about the views of researchers regarding ethics. OBJECTIVES: A pilot study was conducted to assess the applicability of a questionnaire design containing trial scenarios to examine views regarding the use of children in drug trials and to elicit possible international differences. SETTING: Paediatricians and researchers in the United Kingdom and Canada. METHODS: Responders were presented with a questionnaire containing direct questions and six trial scenarios, each containing an ethical dilemma. Responders were asked regarding their own approval and their perceived opinion of whether an ethical review board (ERB) would approve. RESULTS: One hundred questionnaires (50 each country) were received. Few responders had research ethics training (14% United Kingdom and 8% Canada). Most (80 and 88%) felt children could be harmed by participation in trials and half (47 and 59%) felt children should only participate if they receive direct benefit. Many (58 and 61%) disagreed with payments beyond travel expenses. In the trial scenarios, 34% of responders were willing to enter healthy children in a pharmacokinetics study of an antibiotic for cystic fibrosis and 22% considered their ERBs would approve. Only a third (33%) would enter children in an analgesia trial that was placebo-controlled. CONCLUSION: Using healthy children and placebos in trials caused concern. Similar views were found between the two countries. The majority had no training in research ethics. The study highlights the usefulness of a questionnaire with clinical trial scenarios to try to elicit views on the ethics of conducting research in children.
Carvedilol, a beta- and alpha-adrenoceptor blocker, is used to treat congestive heart failure, mild to moderate hypertension, and myocardial infarction. It has been proposed to block K(ATP) channels by binding to the bundle crossing region at a domain including cysteine at position 166, and thereby plugging the pore region. However, carvedilol was reported not to affect Kir2.1 channels, which lack 166 Cys. Here, we demonstrate that carvedilol inhibits Kir2.3 carried current by an alternative mechanism. Carvedilol inhibited Kir2.3 channels with at least 100 fold higher potency (IC(50)=0.49 muM) compared to that for Kir2.1 (IC(50)>50 muM). Kir2.3 channel inhibition was concentration-dependent and voltage-independent. Increasing Kir2.3 channel affinity for PIP(2), by a I213L point mutation, decreased the inhibitory effect of carvedilol more than twentyfold (IC(50)=11.1 muM). In the presence of exogenous PIP(2), Kir2.3 channel inhibition by carvedilol was strongly reduced (80 vs. 2% current inhibition). These results suggest that carvedilol, as other cationic amphiphilic drugs, inhibits Kir2.3 channels by interfering with the PIP(2)-channel interaction.
Synthetic progestins are used by millions of women as contraceptives and in hormone replacement therapy (HRT), although their molecular mechanisms of action are not well understood. The importance of investigating these mechanisms, as compared to those of progesterone, has been highlighted by clinical evidence showing that medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), a first generation progestin, increases the risk of breast cancer and coronary heart disease in HRT users. A diverse range of later generation progestins with varying structures and pharmacological properties is available for therapeutic use and it is becoming clear that different progestins elicit beneficial and adverse effects to different extents. These differences in biological activity are likely to be due to many factors including variations in dose, metabolism, pharmacokinetics, bioavailability, and regulation of, and/or binding, to serum-binding proteins and steroidogenic enzymes. Since the intracellular effects on gene expression and cell signaling of steroids are mediated via intracellular steroid receptors, differential actions via the progesterone and other steroid receptors and their isoforms, are likely to be the major cause of differential intracellular actions of progestins. Since many progestins bind not only to the progesterone receptor, but also to the glucocorticoid, androgen, mineralocorticoid, and possibly the estrogen receptors, it is plausible that synthetic progestins exert therapeutic actions as well as side-effects via some of these receptors. Here we review the molecular mechanisms of intracellular actions of old (MPA, norethisterone, levonorgestrel, gestodene) vs. new (drospirenone, dienogest, trimegestone) generation progestins, via steroid receptors.
Yeast-like symbionts (YLS) are endosymbionts that promote the growth of delphacid planthoppers (Hemiptera: Delphacidae), some of which are pests on cultivated rice. Identification and characterization of YLS growth can be helpful for pest control, because it has been demonstrated that there is a variety of YLS in rice planthopper and they affected the planthopper's growth and virulence to plant hosts. So, elucidation of the species of YLS in planthopper is crucial for exploiting a new way to control planthopper. In this study, a new isolated of YLS was obtained from the small brown planthopper, Laodelphax striatellus, which was cultured in vitro, simultaneously identified as Pichia anomala based on its phylogenetic analysis. In order to confirm the existence of P. anomala in the L. striatellus body, we used the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) to identify the YLS and obtain the specific bands for P. anomala. The quantification and localization of P. anomala in L. striatellus samples were determined by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) using genus-specific 18S rDNA targeted probe. The result confirmed that a certain number of P. anomala exist in L. striatellus's abdomen. Subsequently, the variation and copy number of P. anomala in different L. striatellus instars was measured by using absolute quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), the results indicated that the new isolated strain was closely related to the developmental process of L. striatellus.
OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Current head and neck epidemiology demonstrates a steadily increasing incidence of p16+ human papillomavirus-related oropharynx squamous cell cancer (OPSCC). This distinct tumor subtype is associated with better survival outcomes. There is a growing recognition of the need to define management regimens that take into account the inherent patho-biological attributes of these cancers and provide optimum oncological control with minimum morbidity. This is facilitated by a clear understanding of the prognostic variables that predict disease outcome in patients with p16+ OPSCC. To provide prognostic estimates, pathological staging and histopathological parameters are usually superior to clinical staging. However, knowledge of pathological predictors is sparse, mainly because of commonly employed nonsurgical management policies utilizing chemoradiotherapy. Minimally invasive approaches to the oropharynx, particularly transoral laser microsurgery (TLM), are well-reported effective primary treatments for oropharynx cancers. From such series, it is feasible to conduct a detailed appraisal based on pathologic information from surgical specimens of both the primary and neck, to establish prognosticators unique to p16+ oropharynx cancer patients. STUDY DESIGN: A prospectively assembled database of oropharynx cancer patients treated with primary TLM +/- neck dissection +/- adjuvant therapy from 1996 to 2010, analyzed retrospectively for survival and recurrence. METHODS: The fundamental inclusion criteria were: 1) previously untreated biopsy-proven OPSCC treated with primary TLM +/- neck dissection, 2) diffuse p16 positivity in the surgical specimen, 3) availability for adjuvant therapy, if indicated, and 4), minimum follow-up of 12 months or to death. Cox proportional hazard regression analyses were used to identify variables that were prognostic for disease-free survival (DFS), the primary end point of the study, as well as disease-specific survival (DSS) and overall survival. Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and patterns of disease recurrence were also assessed. We also explored concordance for T and N staging, when assessed by clinical (cT, cN) and pathological (cT, pT) measures. RESULTS: Of 211 patients in the TLM database, 171 met all the eligibility criteria. The median follow-up was 47 months. The 3- and 5-year Kaplan-Meier estimates for DFS were 91% and 88%, respectively, whereas for DSS they were 95.5% and 94.4%, respectively. A total of 12 (7%) recurrences occurred: two local, four regional, and six distant. Of all T-stage categories, pT4 tumors were strongest predictors of poorer DFS. cT4 tonsil primaries, ever smoking status, three or more metastatic nodes, pN2b+ stage, and radiation-based adjuvant therapy were other prognosticators for DFS. Angioinvasion and T3-T4 tumors were prognostic for reduced DSS, although smoking parameters were not. Extracapsular spread, N stage, and margins were nonprognosticators. Recursive partitioning analysis defined high- and low-risk groupings of prognosticators. Downstaging of clinical T stage was observed for 31% of tumors on application of pathological classification. CONCLUSIONS: We document a well-delineated set of prognostic variables that specifically and accurately identify individuals at risk of reduced outcomes in an otherwise good prognosis p16+ OPSCC cohort. Based on these prognosticators, appropriate patient counseling, adjuvant treatment recommendations, and stratification for trials can more accurately be made. We also observed an additional edge conferred by TLM toward more accurate clinical as well as pathological T staging.
Chemistry is about chemical reactions. Chemistry is about electrons changing their configurations as atoms and molecules react. Chemistry has for more than a century studied reactions as if they occurred in ideal conditions of infinitely dilute solutions. But most reactions occur in salt solutions that are not ideal. In those solutions everything (charged) interacts with everything else (charged) through the electric field, which is short and long range extending to the boundaries of the system. Mathematics has recently been developed to deal with interacting systems of this sort. The variational theory of complex fluids has spawned the theory of liquid crystals (or vice versa). In my view, ionic solutions should be viewed as complex fluids, particularly in the biological and engineering context. In both biology and electrochemistry ionic solutions are mixtures highly concentrated (to approximately 10 M) where they are most important, near electrodes, nucleic ids, proteins, active sites of enzymes, and ionic channels. Ca2+ is always involved in biological solutions because the concentration (really free energy per mole) of Ca2+ in a particular location is the signal that controls many biological functions. Such interacting systems are not simple fluids, and it is no wonder that analysis of interactions, such as the Hofmeister series, rooted in that tradition has not succeeded as one would hope. Here, we present a variational treatment of ard spheres in a frictional dielectric with the hope that such a treatment of an lectrolyte as a complex fluid will be productive. The theory automatically extends to spatially nonuniform boundary conditions and the nonequilibrium systems and flows they produce. The theory is unavoidably self-consistent since differential equations are derived (not assumed) from models of (Helmholtz free) nergy and dissipation of the electrolyte. The origin of the Hofmeister series is (in my view) an inverse problem that becomes well posed when enough data from disjoint experimental traditions are interpreted with a self-consistent theory.
An 80-year-old Japanese man with liver cirrhosis was suspected of having lipomatous pseudohypertrophy of the pancreas on the basis of results of ultrasonography and a computed tomography scan. He eventually died of hepatic failure. He had no obesity, diabetes mellitus or pancreatic symptoms during his entire clinical course. Autopsy results confirmed lipomatous pseudohypertrophy of the pancreas, cholecystolithiasis, and postnecrotic liver cirrhosis associated with submassive hepatic necrosis was suspected. Although the pathogenesis of lipomatous pseudohypertrophy of the pancreas is not clear, the findings in the present case provide further evidence to support the hypothesis that advanced hepatic lesions cause this lesion.
Thyroid hormones (THs), and more precisely the 3,3',5-triiodo-l-thyronine (T(3)) acetic derivative 3,3',5-triiodothyroacetic acid (TRIAC), have been shown to activate metamorphosis in amphioxus. However, it remains unknown whether TRIAC is endogenously synthesized in amphioxus and more generally whether an active TH metabolism is regulating metamorphosis. Here we show that amphioxus naturally produces TRIAC from its precursors T(3) and l-thyroxine (T(4)), supporting its possible role as the active TH in amphioxus larvae. In addition, we show that blocking TH production inhibits metamorphosis and that this effect is compensated by exogenous T(3), suggesting that a peak of TH production is important for advancement of proper metamorphosis. Moreover, several amphioxus genes encoding proteins previously proposed to be involved in the TH signaling pathway display expression profiles correlated with metamorphosis. In particular, thyroid hormone receptor (TR) and deiodinases gene expressions are either up- or down-regulated during metamorphosis and by TH treatments. Overall, these results suggest that an active TH metabolism controls metamorphosis in amphioxus, and that endogenous TH production and metabolism as well as TH-regulated metamorphosis are ancestral in the chordate lineage.
Babesia bovis is the causative agent of babesiosis, a tick-borne disease that is a major cause of loss to livestock production in Latin America. Vaccination against Babesia species represents a major challenge against cattle morbidity and mortality in enzootic areas. The aim of this study was to evaluate the capacity of Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) to deliver the rhoptry associated protein (RAP-1) antigen of B. bovis and to stimulate specific cellular and humoral immune responses in mice. Two of five mycobacterial expression vectors efficiently expressed the antigen. These constructs were subsequently studied in vivo following three immunization protocols. The construct with the greatest in vivo stability proved to be the one that induced the strongest immune responses. Our data support the hypothesis that specific T lymphocyte priming by rBCG can be employed as a component of a combined vaccine strategy to induce long-lasting humoral and cellular immune responsiveness towards B. bovis and encourage further work on the application of rBCG to the development of Babesia vaccines.
STUDY DESIGN: A systematic review of scientific literature. OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to determine whether bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are more effective in treating bone defects than traditional techniques, such as grafting autologous bone. SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: BMPs were used in several human randomized controlled trials (RCTs). There are both logical arguments and an empirical basis for using RCTs to evaluate the effects of health care interventions and restrict systematic reviews to such a kind of study design. METHODS: An electronic search was made in the databases of MEDLINE, EMBASE (through MeSH and Emtree), and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, extended to May 31, 2006, with no linguistic restrictions. RCTs that compare bone regeneration achieved through BMPs versus that obtained by traditional methods entered the study. RESULTS: The 17 publications that met the criteria, divided into subgroups by type of bone, were tabulated by salient characteristics and evaluated through the items proposed by van Tulder et al. However, as the studies differed widely (in terms of site, sample size, dosage of active principle, carrier, clinical and radiologic data recording), it was possible to carry out a metaanalysis of clinical and radiologic outcome only for the subgroup that evaluated the vertebrae, where it was observed that BMPs offer a slightly but statistically significant greater efficacy than do traditional techniques. CONCLUSIONS: The use of BMPs at the vertebrae can eliminate the need for surgery to harvest autologous bone. The only large study carried out on the other sites suggests that BMPs should be used at a concentration of 1.5 mg/mL to treat fractures of the tibia. However, further RCTs of good methodological quality are advisable so as to clarify the effectiveness of BMPs in clinical practice.
For the past several decades, there has been little improvement in the morbidity and mortality associated with Acanthamoeba keratitis and Acanthamoeba encephalitis respectively. The discovery of a plethora of anti-Acanthamoebic compound(s) has not yielded effective marketed chemotherapeutics. The development of novel anti-Acanthamoebic chemotherapies of translational value and a lack of interest by the pharmaceutical industry has been disappointing. On the other hand, the market for contact lenses/contact lens disinfectants is a multibillion-dollar industry and has been successful and profitable. A better understanding of drugs, their targets, and mechanisms of action will facilitate the development of more effective chemotherapies. Here, we review the progress towards phenotypic drug discovery emphasizing the shortcomings of useable therapies.
PURPOSE: In order to identify supportive evidence of radiation exposure to cells, we analyzed the relationship between exposure to ionizing radiation and the induction of deletions in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using human hepatoblastoma cell line, HepG2 and its derivatives, HepG2-A, -89 and -400, established after long term exposure to X-ray, mtDNA deletions were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and real-time PCR after cells were subjected to radiation and genotoxic treatments. RESULTS: Common Deletion (CD), the most extensively studied deletion of mtDNA, was induced within 24 h after exposure to 5 Gray (Gy) of X-rays and was associated with replication of mtDNA. CD became undetectable several days after the exposure due to the death of cells containing mitochondria within which CD had been induced. Furthermore, we found a novel mtDNA deletion that consisted of a 4934 base-pair deletion (4934del) between nucleotide position 8435 and 13,368. A lower dose of ionizing radiation was required to induce the 4934del than for CD and this was independent of the quality of radiation used and was not induced by treatments with hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and other genotoxic reagents including bleomycin. CONCLUSION: CD is induced by ionizing radiation, however, the amount of CD detected at a certain point in time after radiation exposure is dependent on the initial frequency of CD induced and the death rate of cells with mtDNA containing CD. The novel mtDNA deletion found in this study, therefore, will be used to determine whether cells were exposed to ionizing radiation.
Transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) are used for gene knockout and genome-editing studies in zebrafish, and these techniques have the potential to be applied to other fish species. Here, we show that TALENs can directly knock out a green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgene in medaka by affecting translation and synthesis of the GFP. We constructed a transgenic plasmid (pGFP-RFP) carrying the GFP and red fluorescent protein (RFP) genes, and used a modified TALEN method to assemble a pair of TALENs for the core chromophore Y66 region of GFP. Embryo toxicity of TALEN messenger RNA (mRNA) was far lower than the linearized plasmid; meanwhile, 76.3 % embryos, green fluorescence of embryos decreased significantly after co-injection of TALEN mRNA and the linearized plasmid, but red fluorescence showed no significant change. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and sequencing results showed that nearly 100 % mutated GFP position was disrupted at the Y66 region of GFP in the co-injected medaka embryos, caused by TALENs. This led to random insertion-deletion of nucleotides, which affected the translation of GFP and disrupted GFP synthesis. This provides new experimental evidence for designing TALEN sites in genes for which only key functional domains are known. Our results show that a modified TALEN method can efficiently and specifically mediate a transgene knockout in medaka. This report may promote the application of TALENs in gene-editing studies of fish species other than zebrafish.
Previously, we have demonstrated that excitotoxicity of oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLC), differentiated from immortalized rat O-2A progenitor cells (CG-4 cells), is prevented by cyclic AMP-elevating agents. We now report that some agents that elevate cyclic GMP prevent OLC excitotoxicity. Kainate-induced injury was prevented by cyclic GMP analogues (8-bromo-cyclic GMP and dibutyryl cyclic GMP), a guanylate cyclase activator [atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP)], and phosphodiesterase inhibitors [3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX), ibudilast, propentofylline, and rolipram]. When both forskolin and 8-bromo-cyclic GMP were added, kainate-induced injury was additively prevented. There was a strong positive correlation between suppression of kainate-induced Ca2+ influx and prevention of injury by these chemicals. The measurement of intracellular cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP by radioimmunoassay demonstrated the following: an increase of cyclic GMP with treatment with 8-bromo-cyclic GMP, dibutyryl cyclic GMP, and ANP; an increase of cyclic AMP with treatment with ibudilast and rolipram; and an increase of both cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP with treatment with IBMX and propentofylline. Kainate-induced Ca2+ influx was decreased by 8-(4-chlorophenylthiol)-guanosine-3',5'-monophosphate, an activator of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), or okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A. RT-PCR and westem blotting of OLC demonstrated transcription of PKG II gene and translation of PKG Ibeta mRNA, but no translation of PKG Ialpha mRNA. Therefore, we concluded that the cyclic GMP/PKG system prevents OLC excitotoxicity.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the composite neonatal morbidity of pregnancies with fetal growth restriction (estimated fetal weight less than the 10th percentile) and normal compared with elevated umbilical artery systolic-to-diastolic ratios. METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study of all pregnancies complicated by fetal growth restriction with normal compared with elevated umbilical artery systolic-to-diastolic ratios from January 2008 to July 2012 at a single center. Exclusions were multiple gestation, prenatally diagnosed fetal anomalies, delivery at outside institution, and absent or reversed end diastolic flow. Maternal characteristics and perinatal outcomes including composite neonatal morbidity were compared between groups. RESULTS: Of 11,785 pregnancies evaluated, 789 (7%) were diagnosed with fetal growth restriction. Among 512 that met inclusion criteria, 394 (77%) had normal and 118 (23%) had elevated umbilical artery systolic-to-diastolic ratios. When fetal growth-restricted pregnancies with elevated umbilical artery systolic-to-diastolic ratios were delivered at 37 weeks of gestation were compared with those with normal umbilical artery systolic-to-diastolic ratios delivered at 39 weeks of gestation, there was no difference in the rate of neonatal intensive care unit admission (101 [25.7%] compared with 51 [43.2%]; crude odds ratio [OR] 2.5, 95% confidence interval 1.5-4.0; adjusted OR 1.37, 95% CI 0.69-2.71) or composite neonatal morbidity (60 [15.2%] compared with 24 [20.3%]; crude OR 1.42, 95% CI 0.84-2.40; adjusted OR 0.91, 95% CI 0.45-1.84). CONCLUSION: Composite neonatal morbidity is comparable in fetal growth-restricted pregnancies with elevated compared with normal umbilical artery systolic-to-diastolic ratios when delivered at 37 and 39 weeks of gestation, respectively. Planning delivery of pregnancies with fetal growth restriction and elevated systolic-to-diastolic ratios and without other complications at 37 weeks of gestation results in good outcomes.
The induced toxicity of three pesticides (alpha-Hexachlorocyclohexane: alpha-HCH; Parathion methyl:PM; Carbofuran: CN) in single and four possible combination on human keratinocyte cell line have been investigated. There was no significant change in toxicity (cyto and genotoxicity) on cell line exposed by individual pesticides except alpha-HCH. But, a synergistic effect was observed when we tested mixture of pesticides. The intracellular ROS and cytotoxicity assay revealed maximum reduction in cell viability (60%) was found in tri mixture of pesticides. All the possible combination of these pesticides demonstrated genotoxic activity in terms of olive tail moment and % tail DNA on cell line at low concentration. The order of toxicity was ranked as alpha-HCH+PM+CN>alpha- HCH+CN>PM+CN>alpha-HCH+PM. Our results call for more research to be undertaken in order to understand the mechanisms behind the synergy observed and quantify the extent of its environmental impacts.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Recombinant human C1-inhibitor (rhC1INH) is used to treat acute angioedema attacks in hereditary angioedema (HAE) due to a genetic C1INH deficiency. Recombinant proteins in general may induce antibody responses and therefore evaluation of such responses in the target population is an essential step in the clinical development program of a recombinant protein. Here we report the assessment of the immunogenicity of rhC1INH in symptomatic HAE patients. METHODS: Blood samples collected before and after administration of rhC1INH were tested for antibodies against plasma-derived (pd) or rhC1INH, or against host-related impurities (HRI). Above cut-off screening results were confirmed with displacement assays, and also tested for neutralizing anti-C1INH antibodies. Finally, the relation of antibodies to clinical efficacy and safety of rhC1INH was analyzed. RESULTS: Data from 155 HAE patients who received 424 treatments with rhC1INH were analyzed. 1.5% of all pre-exposure tests and 1.3% of all post-exposure tests were above the cut-off level in the screening assay for anti-C1INH antibodies. Six patients (3.9%) had anti-rhC1INH antibodies positive in the confirmatory assay. In two patients, confirmed antibodies were pre-existing with no increase post-exposure; in three patients, the antibodies occurred on a single occasion post-exposure; and in one patient, on subsequent occasions post-exposure. Neutralizing anti-pdC1INH antibodies were not found. Anti-HRI antibodies in the screening assay occurred in <0.7% of the tests before exposure to rhC1INH, in <1.9% after first exposure and in <3.1% after repeat treatment with rhC1INH. Five patients had anti-HRI antibodies positive in the confirmatory assay. In one patient, the antibodies were pre-existing, whereas in three of the 155 rhC1INH-treated patients (1.9%), confirmed anti-HRI antibodies occurred at more time points. Antibody findings were not associated with altered efficacy of rhC1INH or adverse events. CONCLUSION: These results indicate a reassuring immunosafety profile of rhC1INH as a treatment for acute HAE attacks.
BACKGROUND: To analyze the usefulness of bone marrow (BM) study in the diagnosis of fever of unknown origin (FUO) in patients infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in a single center during a period of 42 months. PATIENTS AND METHODS: 182 episodes of FUO in 162 patients p3th HIV infection were studied. Age, sex, risk factor for HIV infection, hemoglobin level, counts of leucocytes, neutrophils, lymphocytes, CD4 positive lymphocytes, platelets and levels of hepatic enzymes, albumin and beta 2-microglobulin were studied. BM aspirate was performed in all episodes for cytologic and microbiologic examination, and BM biopsy was done in 43. Analysis of factors related with the probability of diagnosis by BM examination was carried out. RESULTS: The median age was 33 years (range, 22-70), and 123 were males. Drug abuse was the most frequent risk factor for HIV infection (63%). One hundred thirty patients had previous AIDS diagnosis before they were evaluated for unexplained fever. A specific diagnosis was achieved in 161 episodes (88%) and the most frequent diagnoses were Mycobacterium spp. (55%) and Leishmania spp. (14%) infections. Fifty-four episodes (30%) were diagnosed by BM examination, and in 36 (20%) BM study was the only diagnostic tool. Examination of the BM aspirate yielded the diagnosis in 40 out of the 178 episodes (13%), whereas BM biopsy was a diagnostic tool in 8 (19%); in 9 additional cases (21%) granulomas were observed. Microbiologic study of BM smears for mycobacterial infections was positive in 28 of the 143 episodes (19%), and the culture for Leishmania was positive in 2 out of the 42 cases. The presence of thrombocytopenia (< 75 x 10(9)/l) and elevated serum levels of aspartate-aminotransferase (AST) (> 100 U/l) were the factors associated with a high probability to obtain the diagnosis through BM study. CONCLUSIONS: In patients infected by the HIV and unexplained fever, BM examination is an useful procedure for the diagnosis, particularly in areas where infections by Mycobacterium spp. and Leishmania are prevalent. So that, in our setting, systematic use of this procedure is justified for diagnosis of FUO in those patients.
OBJECTIVE: Pregnant women who receive a high screening risk result for Down, Edwards or Patau syndrome are offered diagnostic tests that carry a risk of miscarriage. This study determined how many women had such tests per syndrome diagnosis. METHOD: The number of tests per Down, Edwards or Patau syndrome diagnosis adjusted for maternal and gestational age at diagnosis was calculated using routine data from 18 (95%) cytogenetic laboratories in England and Wales in 2008. RESULTS: There were 19,326 tests that identified 1118 diagnoses of Down syndrome and 615 of Edwards and Patau syndromes. There were eight chorionic villus samplings (CVS) per syndrome diagnosis compared with 16 amniocenteses (gestational age adjusted). The lowest number of tests per diagnosis (three for CVSs and for amniocentesis) resulted from an abnormal ultrasound scan. Among pregnant women, 2.9% had an invasive diagnostic test. If a CVS and an amniocentesis increase the risk of a miscarriage by 1% and 0.5%, respectively, approximately one miscarriage for every 14 Down, Edwards or Patau syndrome diagnosis would have occurred. CONCLUSION: A simple measurement of the population impact of screening for Down syndrome can be calculated using data already collected. Annual estimates should be produced to monitor the national fetal anomaly screening programme. (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Many proteins are post-translationally modified by the attachment of poly-ubiquitin (Ub) chains. Notably, the biological function of the attached Ub chain depends on the specific lysine residue used for conjugate formation. Here, we report an easy and efficient method to synthesize site-specifically linked Ub dimers by click reaction between two artificial amino acids. In fact, we were able to synthesize all seven naturally occurring Ub connectivities, providing the first example of a method that gives access to all Ub dimers. Furthermore, these synthetic Ub dimers are recognized by the natural ubiquitination machinery and are proteolytically stable, making them optimal candidates to further investigate the function of differently linked Ub chains.
We investigated the in vivo effects of dietary conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) on subcutaneous adipose tissue from heavy pigs to clarify the involvement of possibly different causative effects in the established antiadipogenic effect of CLA. Pigs [n = 36; initial body weight, 106 kg live weight (LW)] were assigned to 1 of 2 LW-matched groups supplemented with either 0 or 0.75% of a CLA preparation containing 50% CLA isomers. The pigs were slaughtered at 155 kg LW and adipose tissue analyzed. CLA supplementation affected ash content, and decreased iodine values (P < 0.01) and adipocyte size (P < 0.05). The fat content of adipose tissue was lower (P < 0.05) in females than castrated males, and females had smaller (P < 0.01) adipocytes than castrated males. Neither CLA nor sex influenced adipocyte lipid droplet diameter or the extent of lipid peroxidation as determined by quantitation of Schiff's histochemical reaction. NADPH-diaphorase was not influenced by CLA treatment. Preadipocyte proliferation rates were lower in pigs fed CLA (P < 0.05), whereas the number of adipocyte apoptotic nuclei was greater (P < 0.05). Preadipocyte proliferation was also greater (P < 0.05) in females than castrated males. Neuronal and endothelial nitric oxide synthase activities did not differ between groups in adipose tissue vessels, but inducible nitric oxide synthase expression in adipocytes was lower in pigs fed CLA (P = 0.05). These findings suggest that the antiadipogenic effect of CLA in heavy pigs is not a direct effect but may occur by downregulation of a NO-mediated lipolytic pathway.
PURPOSE: To apply recently developed predictive models for swallowing dysfunction to compare the predicted probabilities of swallowing dysfunction for standard intensity modulated radiotherapy (ST-IMRT) and swallowing sparing IMRT (SW-IMRT). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty head and neck cancer patients who previously underwent radiotherapy for the bilateral neck were selected for this study. For each patient, ST-IMRT and SW-IMRT simultaneous integrated boost treatment plans were created. ST-IMRT treatment plan optimisation aimed at obtaining adequate target volume coverage and sparing of the parotid and submandibular glands as much as possible. Objectives for SW-IMRT were similar, with additional objectives to spare the organs at risk related to swallowing dysfunction (SWOARs). Dose-volume data with ST-IMRT and SW-IMRT and normal tissue complication probabilities for physician-rated and patient-rated swallowing dysfunction were calculated with recently developed predictive models. RESULTS: All plans had adequate target volume coverage and dose to critical organs was within accepted limits. Sparing of parotid glands was similar for ST-IMRT and SW-IMRT. With SW-IMRT, the mean dose to the various SWOARs was reduced. Absolute dose values and dose reductions with SW-IMRT differed per patient and per SWOAR and depended on N stage and tumour location. The mean reduction in predicted physician-rated Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) grade 2-4 swallowing dysfunction was 9% (range, 3-20%). Mean reductions of the probability of patient-rated moderate to severe complaints with regard to the swallowing of solid food, soft food, liquid food and choking when swallowing were 8%, 2%, 1% and 1%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: New predictive models for swallowing dysfunction were applied to show potential reductions in physician and patient-rated swallowing dysfunction with IMRT that was specifically optimised to spare SWOARs.
The aim of the present study was to reveal the characteristic features of genital Chlamydia suis infection and re-infection in female pigs by studying the immune response, pathological changes, replication of chlamydial bacteria in the genital tract and excretion of viable bacteria. Pigs were intravaginally infected and re-infected with C. suis strain S45, the type strain of this species. We demonstrated that S45 is pathogenic for the female urogenital tract. Chlamydia replication occurred throughout the urogenital tract, causing inflammation and pathology. Furthermore, genital infection elicited both cellular and humoral immune responses. Compared to the primo-infection of pigs with C. suis, re-infection was characterized by less severe macroscopic lesions and less chlamydial elementary bodies and inclusions in the urogenital tract. This indicates the development of a certain level of protection following the initial infection. Protective immunity against re-infection coincided with higher Chlamydia-specific IgG and IgA antibody titers in sera and vaginal secretions, higher proliferative responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), higher percentages of blood B lymphocytes, monocytes and CD8(+) T cells and upregulated production of IFN-gamma and IL-10 by PBMC.
OBJECTIVES: There are a few previously reported studies about the effect of Nigella sativa oil on renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis whether pre- or post-treatment with N. sativa hydroalcoholic extract (NSE) would reduce tissue injury and oxidative damages in a clinically relevant rat model of renal IRI. MATERIALS AND METHODS: IRI was induced by clamping of bilateral renal arteries for 40 min fallowed by reperfusion for 180 min. NSE was prepared in a Soxhlet extractor and administrated with doses of 150 mg/kg or 300 mg/kg at 1 hr before ischemia induction (P-150 and 300) or at the beginning of reperfusion phase (T-150 and 300), via jugular catheter intravenously. The kidneys were then removed and subjected to biochemical analysis, comet assay or histopathological examination. RESULTS: The kidneys of untreated IRI rats had a higher histopathological score (P<0.001), while in P-150, as well as T-150 and T-300 groups tubular lesions significantly decreased (P<0.001). Pre- and post-treatment with NSE also resulted in a significant decrease in malondialdehyde (MDA) level (P<0.001) and DNA damage (P<0.001) that were increased by renal I/R injury. NSE treatment also significantly restore (P<0.01) the decrease in renal thiol content caused by IRI. CONCLUSION: The present study shows N. sativa extract has marked protective action against renal IRI, which may be partly due to its antioxidant effects.
OBJECTIVE: The invasive measurement of hepatic venous pressure gradient is the recommended method for the assessment of portal hypertension. We assessed if the mediators that regulate portal hypertension may be used as noninvasive markers of portal hypertension and liver insufficiency. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We explored in prospective, observational study the concentration of endothelin-1, nitric oxide, and transforming growth factor-beta1/2 in peripheral and hepatic venous blood; their relationship with the values of portal hypertension and liver insufficiency; and their level changes 4-6 months after non-selective beta-blocker therapy in cirrhotic patients with non-bleeding esophageal varices. RESULTS: (1) Cirrhotics have significantly increased peripheral endothelin 1 and decreased transforming growth factor-beta1 levels; (2) peripheral levels of all factors correlated significantly with their hepatic levels; (3) after therapy, peripheral endothelin-1 levels significantly increased, but transforming growth factor-beta2 levels decreased and were lower in patients with pressure gradient value normalization; (4) before and after therapy, peripheral and hepatic endothelin-1, transforming growth factor-beta1/2 levels correlated significantly with liver failure indicators (laboratory parameters, Child-Pough and MELD scores) and pressure gradient values. CONCLUSIONS: Peripheral endothelin-1 and transforming growth factor-beta1 levels, which strongly correlate with their hepatic levels, reflect the stage of portal hypertension and liver insufficiency in cirrhosis.
New dentate granule cells (GCs) are generated in the hippocampus throughout life. These adult-born neurons are required for spatial learning in the Morris water maze (MWM). In rats, spatial learning shapes the network by regulating their number and dendritic development. Here, we explored whether such modulatory effects exist in mice. New GCs were tagged using thymidine analogs or a GFP-expressing retrovirus. Animals were exposed to a reference memory protocol for 10-14 days (spaced training) at different times after newborn cells labeling. Cell proliferation, cell survival, cell death, neuronal phenotype, and dendritic and spine development were examined using immunohistochemistry. Surprisingly, spatial learning did not modify any of the parameters under scrutiny including cell number and dendritic morphology. These results suggest that although new GCs are required in mice for spatial learning in the MWM, they are, at least for the developmental intervals analyzed here, refractory to behavioral stimuli generated in the course of learning in the MWM.
BACKGROUND: Little is known about normal in vivo mechanics of the glenohumeral joint. Such an understanding would have significant implications for treating disease conditions that disrupt shoulder function. The objective of this study was to determine articular contact locations between the glenoid and humeral articular surfaces in normal subjects during shoulder abduction with neutral, internal, and external rotations. We hypothesized that glenohumeral articular contact is not perfectly centered and is variable in normal subjects tested under physiological loading conditions. METHODS: Orthogonal fluoroscopic images and magnetic resonance image-based computer models were used to characterize the centroids of articular cartilage contact of the glenohumeral joint at various static, actively stabilized abduction and rotation positions in five healthy shoulders. The shoulder was investigated at 0 degrees , 45 degrees , and 90 degrees abduction with neutral rotation and then at 90 degrees abduction combined with active maximal external rotation and active maximal internal rotation. RESULTS: For all the investigated positions, the centroid of contact on the glenoid surface for each individual, on average, was more than 5 mm away from the geometric center of the glenoid articular surface. Intersubject variation of the centroid of articular contact on the glenoid surface was observed with each investigated position, and 90 degrees abduction with maximal internal rotation showed the least variability. On the humeral head surface, the centroids of contact were located at the superomedial quarter for all investigated positions, except in two subjects' positions at 0 degrees abduction, neutral rotation. CONCLUSIONS: The data showed that the in vivo glenohumeral contact locations were variable among subjects, but in all individuals they were not at the center of the glenoid and humeral head surfaces. This confirms that "ball-in-socket" kinematics do not govern normal shoulder function. These insights into glenohumeral articular contact may be relevant to an appreciation of the consequences of pathology such as rotator cuff disease and instability.
PURPOSE: To study the range of ocular symptoms in a cohort of patients with chikungunya infection. DESIGN: Retrospective, observational case series. METHODS: Patients attending a tertiary eye care hospital in South India were included in the study. We included adult patients with serologically confirmed chikungunya virus infection who received clinical care at the Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai, South India. They were assessed for demographic characteristics, ocular symptoms, laboratory parameters, and chikungunya virus infection severity. Patients underwent a complete ophthalmologic examination that included visual acuity, slit-lamp examination, and indirect funduscopic examination. Visual outcome at the end of three months was the main outcome measure. RESULTS: The charts of 37 patients were analyzed based on the clinical picture and the serologic results. Forty patients were included as controls and tested negative. There were 21 males and 16 females with a mean age of 44.17 years. The main ocular symptoms included granulomatous and nongranulomatous anterior uveitis, optic neuritis retrobulbar neuritis, and dendritic lesions. Of the 26 patients who were followed up for three months, the visual acuity improved in 11 patients (42.3%), remained the same in 12 patients (46.15%), and worsened in three patients (11.5%). CONCLUSIONS: The main ocular manifestation associated with the recent epidemic outbreak of chikungunya virus infection in South India included granulomatous and nongranulomatous anterior uveitis, optic neuritis, retrobulbar neuritis, and dendritic lesions. The visual prognosis generally was good, with most patients recovering good vision. Further studies are needed to understand the pathogenesis of this disease.
Peroxiredoxin 1 (Prx 1) is an important antioxidant protein that can protect organisms against the toxicity of reactive oxygen species. In this study, a full-length Prx 1 cDNA sequence (ToPrx 1) was identified from golden pompano (Trachinotus ovatus). The ToPrx 1 cDNA was 1049 base pairs (bp) long and contained a 5'-untranslated region (UTR) of 127 nucleotides, a 3'-UTR of 328 nucleotides, and a 594 bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a 197 amino acid polypeptide. The ToPrx 1 protein showed strong homology (79-91%) with Prx 1 proteins from other species and contained the conserved Prx domain and the signature of the peroxidase catalytic center. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that ToPrx 1 was in the fish Prx 1 subgroup, which suggests that ToPrx 1 could belong to the 2-Cys Prx subgroup. ToPrx 1 mRNA was ubiquitously detected in all tested tissues, and its expression was comparatively high in the fin, spleen, kidney, intestine, eye, gill, and blood. The expression levels of ToPrx 1 mRNA were significantly up-regulated in liver, spleen, kidney, and intestine of golden pompano injected with Photobacterium damselae. The recombinant ToPrx 1 protein (rToPrx 1) was expressed and purified through affinity chromatography and refolded successfully using ion-exchange chromatography. The antioxidant activity assay of rToPrx 1 showed that it could reduce insulin in the presence of dithiothreitol, which suggests that the antioxidant function of rToPrx 1 is thiol dependent. This study provides useful information to help further understand the functional mechanism of Prx 1 in marine fish immunity.
We developed models to predict foraging habitat of adult female northern fur seals (Callorhinus ursinus) using stable carbon (delta13C) and nitrogen (delta15N) isotope values from plasma and red blood cells. Binomial generalized linear mixed models were developed using blood isotope samples collected from 35 adult female fur seals on three breeding colonies in Alaska during July-October 2006. Satellite location and dive data were used to define habitat use in terms of the proportion of time spent or dives made in different oceanographic/bathymetric domains. For both plasma and red blood cells, the models accurately predicted habitat use for animals that foraged exclusively off or on the continental shelf. The models did not perform as well in predicting habitat use for animals that foraged in both on- and off-shelf habitat; however, sample sizes for these animals were small. Concurrently collected scat, fatty acid, and dive data confirmed that the foraging differences predicted by isotopes were associated with diet differences. Stable isotope samples, dive data, and GPS location data collected from an additional 15 females during August-October 2008 validated the effective use of the models across years. Little within year variation in habitat use was indicated from the comparison between stable isotope values from plasma (representing 1-2 weeks) and red blood cells (representing the prior few months). Constructing predictive models using stable isotopes provides an effective means to assess habitat use at the population level, is inexpensive, and can be applied to other marine predators.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Guidelines recommend continuous ECG monitoring in patients with cerebrovascular events. Studies on intensive care units (ICU) demonstrated high sensitivity but high rates of false alarms of monitoring systems resulting in desensitization of medical personnel potentially endangering patient safety. Data on patients with acute stroke are lacking. METHODS: One-hundred fifty-one consecutive patients with acute cerebrovascular events were prospectively included. Automatically identified arrhythmia events were analyzed by manual ECG analysis. Muting of alarms was registered. Sensitivity was evaluated by beat-to-beat analysis of the entire recorded ECG data in a subset of patients. Ethics approval was obtained by University of Erlangen-Nuremberg. RESULTS: A total of 4809.5 hours of ECG registration and 22 509 alarms were analyzed. The automated detection algorithm missed no events but the overall rate of false alarms was 27.4%. Only 0.6% of all alarms indicated acute life-threatening events and 91.4% of these alarms were incorrect. Transient muting of acoustic alarms was observed in 20.5% patients. CONCLUSIONS: Continuous ECG monitoring using automated arrhythmia detection is highly sensitive in acute stroke. However, high rates of false alarms and alarms without direct therapeutic consequence cause desensitization of personnel. Therefore, acoustic alarms may be limited to life-threatening events but standardized manual evaluation of all alarms should complement automated systems to identify clinically relevant arrhythmias.
Transgenic mice overexpressing Dyrk1A (TgDyrk1A), a Down syndrome (DS) candidate gene, exhibit motor and cognitive alterations similar to those observed in DS individuals. To gain new insights into the molecular consequences of Dyrk1A overexpression underlying TgDyrk1A and possibly DS motor phenotypes, microarray studies were performed. Transcriptome analysis showed an upregulation of the NR2A subunit of the NMDA type of glutamate receptors in TgDyrk1A cerebellum. NR2A protein overexpression was also detected in TgDyrk1A cerebellar homogenates, in the synaptosome-enriched fraction and in TgDyrk1A primary cerebellar granular neuronal cultures (CGNs). In TgDyrk1A synaptosomes, calcium-imaging experiments showed a higher calcium uptake after NMDA stimulation. Similarly, NMDA administration promoted longer calcium transients in TgDyrk1A CGNs. Taken together, these results show that NMDA-induced calcium rise is altered in TgDyrk1A cerebellar neurons and indicate that calcium signaling is dysregulated in TgDyrk1A mice cerebella. These findings suggest that DYRK1A overexpression might contribute to the dysbalance in the excitatory transmission found in the cerebellum of DS individuals and DS mouse models.
The concept of field cancerization and the multistep carcinogenesis theory are the premises on which the development of chemoprevention efforts has been based. The first concept underlies the fact that patients who have been cured of a cancer in the aerodigestive tract are still at risk of developing additional primary tumors in the same field, and the multistep carcinogenesis theory implies that the conceivable arrest of one of the steps by chemoprevention might be enough to impede the development of cancer. There is ongoing research for development of new candidate-chemopreventive substances in most areas of oncology. Most of the clinical experience in chemoprevention of head and neck cancer is based on the use of retinoids. Retinoids in high doses have demonstrated activity in treating oral premalignant lesions (OPLs) but with frequent side effects and early relapse after cessation of therapy. Subsequent trials showed better tolerability of retinoids in lower doses. Ongoing trials are currently evaluating whether chemoprevention over 3 years might have longer-lasting effect both on OPLs and in the prevention of second primary tumors.
The so-called new genetics is widely predicted to radically transform medicine and public health and deliver considerable benefits in the future. This article argues that, although it is doubtful that many of the promised benefits of genetic research will be delivered, an increasingly pervasive genetic worldview and expectations about future genetic innovations are profoundly shaping conceptions of health and illness and priorities in healthcare. Further, it suggests that debates about the normative and justice implications of new genetic technologies thus far have been constrained by bioethics discourse, which has tended to frame questions narrowly in terms of how best to ensure the protection and promotion of the rights and freedoms of the individual. Sociologists and other social scientists can help broaden debate in this field by exposing the assumptions underlying the genetic conception of health and exploring the implications of associated developments.
Prolactin can influence testicular function both directly, and indirectly via altering release of gonadotropins from the pituitary. Although numerous effects of prolactin on male reproductive functions have been described, only a few were demonstrated in more than one species. These include effects on male accessory reproductive glands, on testicular luteinizing hormone receptors, on the release of gonadotropins and on sexual behavior. In rodents, prolactin appears to play a physiological role in the pituitary regulation of testicular function. This is especially pronounced in the golden hamster. In this seasonally-breeding species, alteration of prolactin release is one of the mechanisms mediating the effects of photoperiod on the testis. In the hamster, prolactin is required for the maintenance of luteinizing hormone and prolactin receptors in the testis and treatment with prolactin can completely reverse testicular atrophy induced by exposure to short photoperiod. In both men and rats, excessive release of prolactin (hyperprolactinemia) leads to suppression of sexual behavior and gonadotropin release. These effects appear to be due to the action of prolactin on the central nervous system. Most, if not all, of the effects of prolactin exhibit striking variability among species. Moreover, prolactin can exert differential effects on the same target tissue in the same species, depending primarily on the dose.
The design of a prototype semicircular canal prosthesis is presented along with preliminary results. This device measures angular velocity of the head (+/-500 degrees/s) using a piezoelectric vibrating gyroscope. With a digital filter this velocity is filtered to match the dynamic characteristics of the semicircular canals, which are the physiological rotation sensors of the vestibular system. This digitally filtered signal is used to modulate the pulse rate of electrical stimulation. The pulse rate is varied between 50 and 250 Hz via a sigmoidal lookup table relating pulse rate to angular velocity; the steady-state rate is 150 Hz. A current source utilizes these timing pulses to deliver charge balanced, cathodic-first, biphasic, current pulses to the nerves innervating the semicircular canal via platinum electrodes. Power is supplied via lithium batteries. dc/dc converters are used to generate regulated +/-5 V supplies from the batteries. All of the components are contained in a small, lightweight, Nylon box measuring roughly 43 mm x 31 mm x 25 mm, which can be mounted on the top of an animal's head. This device has been tested in guinea pigs having surgically implanted platinum electrodes, and the results show that the prosthesis can provide a rotational cue to the nervous system.
Plague, a zoonosis caused by Yersinia pestis, is still found in Africa, Asia, and the Americas. Madagascar reports almost one third of the cases worldwide. Y. pestis can be encountered in three very different types of foci: urban, rural, and sylvatic. Flea vector and wild rodent host population dynamics are tightly correlated with modulation of climatic conditions, an association that could be crucial for both the maintenance of foci and human plague epidemics. The black rat Rattus rattus, the main host of Y. pestis in Madagascar, is found to exhibit high resistance to plague in endemic areas, opposing the concept of high mortality rates among rats exposed to the infection. Also, endemic fleas could play an essential role in maintenance of the foci. This review discusses recent advances in the understanding of the role of these factors as well as human behavior in the persistence of plague in Madagascar.
Hepatic complications are common in patients receiving total parental nutrition (TPN) and who have no underlying liver disease. In the present study we examined the hypothesis that endotoxin (LPS) or possibly TNF derived from the overgrowth of intestinal gram-negative bacteria is responsible for TPN-associated hepatic steatosis, and that bowel decontamination and specific anti-LPS activity of polymyxin B will reduce fatty infiltration of the liver during TPN. Forty-five male Sabra rats underwent jugular vein cannulation, were placed in metabolic cages, and were randomized into five groups. Group I was continuously infused with normal saline and allowed food ad lib, while group II-V were continuously infused with a TPN formula containing 4.25% amino acids and 25% dextrose for a total of 36 calories and 3.0 g protein per 100 g body weight/day. In addition, groups III-IV were also treated by oral polymyxin B while Groups IV and V received a combination of neomycin, metronidazole, and vancomycin (NMV). Thus, Group III received polymyxin B, Group IV received both polymyxin B and NMV, while Group V received NMV only. On Days 7-8 of the study, all animals were sacrificed and spontaneous production of TNF by peritoneal macrophages, bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes, culture of the cecum, and fat, triglyceride, and cholesterol contents of the liver were determined. All groups infused with TPN exhibited higher levels of total fat, triglycerides, and cholesterol compared to the free feeding control group (P less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have previously demonstrated that administration of oligomannose-coated liposomes (OMLs), in which an antigen is encased, induce antigen-specific Th1 immune responses and CTLs. In the present study, we showed that TLR4 signaling is required for the induction of specific immune responses following OML administration. In C3H/HeJ mice, which express a dysfunctional TLR4, the antigen-specific Th1 immune response could not be elicited following intraperitoneal administration of OVA-encased OMLs (OML/OVA). However, OML uptake by peritoneal cells, the subsequent production of IL-12 and the upregulation of co-stimulatory molecules and MHC class II on the cells in response to OML uptake occurred in C3H/HeJ mice to the same extent as in wild type C3H/HeN mice. In addition, peritoneal phagocytic cells from TLR4(-/-) mice that ingest OML/OVA can activate CD4(+) T cells from OT-II mice. On the other hand, the number of OML-ingesting peritoneal cells that migrated into mesenteric lymph nodes in C3H/HeJ mice was significantly less than that in C3H/HeN mice. Therefore, the chemotactic capability of OML-ingesting peritoneal phagocytes to the draining lymph nodes rather than the activation and maturation of the cells in response to OML uptake is impaired by lack of TLR4 signaling, and disorder of the Th1 immune response elicited by OMLs in mice, which lack TLR4 signaling, is due to the impairment of cell migration following OML uptake.
We aimed to investigate the mechanism and effects of autophagy on cisplatin (DDP)-induced apoptosis in human gastric cancer cell line SGC7901. After SGC7901 cells were treated with DDP and/or chloroquine, cell proliferation was measured using MTT assay; cell apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry; autophagy and apotosis-related proteins expression were detected by Western blot; and quantitative analysis of autophagy after monodansylcadaverine (MDC) staining was performed using fluorescence microscopy. We found after treatment with 5 mg/L DDP for 24 h, the rates of cell apoptosis were (21.07+/-2.12)%. Autophagy, characterized by an increase in the number of autophagic vesicles and the level of LC3-II protein was observed in cells treated with DDP. After inhibition of autophagy by chloroquine, the rates of cell apoptosis were increased to (30.16+/-3.54)%, and the level of Caspase-3 and P53 protein were increased, and Bcl-2 protein was decreased. Therefore, autophagy protects human gastric cancer cell line SGC7901 against DDP-induced apoptosis, inhibition of autophagy can promote apoptosis, and combination therapy with DDP and chloroquine may be a promising therapeutic strategy for gastric cancer.
SUMMARY The enemy release hypothesis proposes that in parasite depleted habitats, populations will experience relaxed selection and become more susceptible (or less tolerant) to pathogenic infections. Here, we focus on a population of guppies (Poecilia reticulata) that are found in an extreme environment (the Pitch Lake, Trinidad) and examine whether this habitat represents a refuge from parasites. We investigated the efficacy of pitch in preventing microbial infections in Pitch Lake guppies, by exposing them to dechlorinated water, and reducing gyrodactylid infections on non-Pitch Lake guppies by transferring them to Pitch Lake water. We show that (i) natural prevalence of ectoparasites in the Pitch Lake is low compared to reference populations, (ii) Pitch Lake guppies transferred into aquarium water develop microbial infections, and (iii) experimentally infected guppies are cured of their gyrodactylid infections both by natural Pitch Lake water and by dechlorinated water containing solid pitch. These results indicate a role for Pitch Lake water in the defence of guppies from their parasites and suggest that Pitch Lake guppies might have undergone enemy release in this extreme environment. The Pitch Lake provides an ideal ecosystem for studies on immune gene evolution in the absence of parasites and long-term evolutionary implications of hydrocarbon pollution for vertebrates.
Saturation of a liquid with gas before perfusing a tissue or cellular preparation under pressure can be achieved by bubbling the gas through the liquid. A container for this purpose that is housed in the pressure chamber with the preparation allows saturation of the liquid under hyperbaric conditions. Sealing the container allows saturation with a gas different from the gas used to compress the pressure chamber. If the pressure within the sealed container is maintained at a slightly higher level, the bubbling gas can also provide the driving force for the liquid to flow to the preparation. Based on this concept, an apparatus was built and tested to pressures of 6.8 MPa. This paper describes the saturator and the associated circuitry used to control bubbling gas pressure relative to the pressure vessel, gas flow through the saturator, and liquid flow to the preparation. A special application in the case of hydrogen gas is described, where this system has added safety advantages.
Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I presentation of exogenous antigens is the mechanism enabling professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) to induce CD8+ T-cell responses against viruses and tumors that do not have access to the classical MHC class I pathway. We have characterized the uptake, processing, and MHC class I cross-presentation by human dendritic cells (DCs) of cell-associated antigens derived from physiologically relevant sources, namely, vaccinia virus-infected apoptotic and necrotic cells. We show that cross-presentation is a rapid process, detectable within 2 to 4 hours after uptake of dead cells, and that proteolysis by cathepsin D in an acidic endosomal compartment is essential for cross-presentation. The presentation is abolished when the phagocytic or macropinocytic functions of the cells are inhibited and is dependent on transporter associated with antigen processing, sensitive to brefeldin A, and requires functional proteasomes. Altogether, these data suggest that antigens derived from apoptotic and necrotic cells require access to the cytosol to intersect with the conventional MHC class I pathway for presentation of cytosolic proteins.
A novel selenium- (Se-) hyperaccumulating plant, Cardamine hupingshanesis, accumulating Se as a form of SeCys2, was discovered in Enshi, Hubei, China, which could not be explained by present selenocysteine methyltransferase (SMT) theory. However, it is interesting to investigate if rhizosphere bacteria play some roles during SeCys2 accumulation. Here, one Se-tolerant rhizosphere strain, Microbacterium oxydans, was isolated from C. hupingshanesis. Phylogenetic analysis and 16S rRNA gene sequences determined the strain as a kind of Gram positive bacillus and belonged to the family Brevibacterium frigoritolerans. Furthermore, Se tolerance test indicated the strain could grow in extreme high Se level of 15.0 mg Se L(-1). When exposed to 1.5 mg Se L(-1), SeCys2 was the predominant Se species in the bacteria, consistent with the Se species in C. hupingshanesis. This coincidence might reveal that this strain played some positive effect in SeCys2 accumulation of C. hupingshanesis. Moreover, when exposed to 1.5 mg Se L(-1) or 15.0 mg Se L(-1), As absorption diminished in the logarithmic phase. In contrast, As absorption increased when exposed to 7.5 mg Se L(-1), indicating As metabolism processes could be affected by Se on this strain. The present study provided a sight on the role of rhizosphere bacteria during Se accumulation for Se-hyperaccumulating plant.
The cell association of copper in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae can involve both binding to the cell wall and the accumulation of copper within the cell. The former process requires the concurrent generation of H2S by the cell via the reduction of sulphate. The contributions of each of these processes to the uptake of 64Cu by wild type and met3-containing (ATP sulphurylase-deficient) strains have been kinetically dissected. The Michaelis constant for uptake (4 microM) is independent of the type of cell association which is occurring, suggesting, although not requiring, that both processes are associated with a common kinetic intermediate. The time dependence of the cell-association of 64Cu also suggests the presence of this intermediate pool of bound copper. The Vmax for uptake includes a constant contribution from accumulation of 64Cu within the plasmalemma [0.1 nmol min-1 (mg protein)-1] plus that fraction of the 64Cu within the intermediate pool which diffuses away and is trapped on the cell wall as a metal sulphide. This latter contribution to Vmax can be two- to three-times greater than the intracellular uptake depending on the amount and type of sulphur supplementation provided in the 64Cu2+ uptake buffer. Both processes are energy-dependent although the sulphide-dependent periplasmic accumulation is somewhat more sensitive to metabolic inhibition. This can be attributed to the ATP required for the activation of sulphate prior to its reduction to the level of sulphite and then sulphide. Periplasmic 64Cu accumulation is strongly inhibited by Zn2+ and Ni2+. This inhibition is due to competition for cell-generated sulphide; in the presence of 65Zn2+, the decrease in 64Cu bound is quantitatively related to the amount of 65Zn which becomes cell-associated. In contrast, intracellular 64Cu uptake is not inhibited by these two metals (at 50 microM) showing that the copper translocation pathway is metal-specific. These observations suggest a model for the way newly arrived copper is handled at the cell membrane and is partitioned for intracellular uptake.
Strobilurins are one of the most important classes of agricultural fungicides. To discover new strobilurin analogues with high activity against resistant pathogens, a series of new strobilurin derivatives bearing structurally diverse heterocycle side chains 3a-m and 4a-g were designed and synthesized via a microwave-assisted procedure. The advantages, such as good to excellent yields, shorter reaction times, mild reaction conditions, and simple purification procedures, distinguish the present synthetic protocol as a highly efficient method for the preparation of strobilurin thioether derivatives. Bioassays indicated that most of the compounds showed broad-spectrum fungicidal activity in vitro. Interestingly, as compared to the control of a commercial strobilurin fungicide, Kresoxim-methyl, compounds 3b, 3g, 4c, and 4d possessed remarkably higher in vitro fungicidal activity against six kinds of tested fungi. Exhilaratingly, compound 3g exhibited higher in vivo activity against Sphaerotheca fuliginea and Pseudoperoniospora cubensis than Kresoxim-methyl, and the in vivo fungicidal activities of compound 4d and Kresoxim-methyl against S. fuliginea and P. cubensis are at the same level. The present work demonstrated that strobilurin analogues containing benzothiazole side chains could be used as a lead structure for further developing novel fungicides.
Clinical and radiologic findings in a 73-year-old man who developed a systemic illness while receiving intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) immunotherapy for bladder cancer are presented. Thin-section chest computed tomographic findings included a diffuse pattern of small nodules consistent with miliary disease. Potential mechanisms explaining the pulmonary disease resulting from intravesical BCG treatment include a hypersensitivity reaction or actual BCG infection of the lungs.
We developed a suitable method for analysing dinucleotide repeats found in the upstream of human alpha-estrogen receptor (ER) gene by applying capillary electrophoresis and automatic analysis. This method omits the gel-casting step as well as difficult handling of long polyacrylamide sequencing gels. Use of radioactive materials is also avoided. Using this method, the frequency distribution of ER alleles, determined in 180 Finnish individuals showed two peaks at 12 and 14 repeats (166 and 168 bp) and also at 22 and 24 repeats (184 and 186 bp). The overall distribution of alleles seemed to be similar to that found among Italian and Japanese populations.
We performed a detailed molecular study in two unrelated families with pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) and the specific magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) eye-of-the-tiger pattern. In the first family with classic PKAN, linkage analysis using polymorphic markers from the PANK2 region ruled out linkage with this locus, and no mutation of the PANK2 gene was found. In the second family with atypical PKAN, we identified a novel homozygous C-to-T transition at nucleotide 1069 of the PANK2 gene, which resulted in an arginine to tryptophane substitution at codon 357. As far as we are aware, this is the first case of classic PKAN with the specific MRI eye-of-the-tiger pattern not carrying a PANK2 mutation. Therefore, the present observation reinforces the notion of the phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity in PKAN.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of percutaneous microwave (MW) ablation treatment in locally advanced, nonresectable, nonmetastatic pancreatic head cancer. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten patients with pancreatic head cancer treated with percutaneous (n = 5) or laparotomic (n = 5) MW ablation were retrospectively reviewed. The MW generator used (45 W at 915 MHz) was connected by coaxial cable to 14-gauge straight MW antennas with a 3.7- or 2-cm radiating section. One or two antennae were used, with an ablation time of 10 minutes. Ultrasonographic (US) and combined US/cone-beam computed tomographic (CT) guidance were used in five patients each. Follow-up was performed by CT after 1, 3, 6, and, when possible, 12 months. Tumor response was assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (version 1.1) and Choi criteria. The feasibility, safety, and major and minor complications associated with quality of life (QOL) were recorded prospectively. RESULTS: The procedure was feasible in all patients (100%). One late major complication was observed in one patient, and no visceral injury was detected. No patient had further surgery, and all minor complications resolved during the hospital stay. An improvement in QOL was observed in all patients despite a tendency to return to preoperative levels in the months following the procedure, without the influence of minor complications. No repeat treatment was performed. CONCLUSIONS: Despite the small number of patients, the present results can be considered encouraging, showing that MW ablation is a feasible approach in the palliative treatment of pancreatic tumors.
A case of salmonella paratyphi A fever with reversible pancytopenia in a 15 years old boy who presented with history of high grade continuous fever, epistaxis and haemoptysis, relative bradycardia and splenomegaly is described here. A brief review of the literature on possible causes of reversible pancytopenia in this case is also discussed.
INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to evaluate the changes of skeletal and dental structures in mild to moderate skeletal Class III children following the use of a new magnetic orthopedic appliance (MOA-III). METHODS: A total of 36 patients (14 boys and 22 girls, mean age 9 years and 5 months) who presented with a mild to moderate skeletal Class III jaw discrepancy were treated with MOA-III. Another group of 20 untreated patients (9 boys and 11 girls, mean age 9 years and 2 months) with the same level of deformity served as the control group. The average treatment time was 6.6 months. Radiographs were taken at the same time intervals for both groups. A paired t test was used to determine the significant differences before and after treatment, and a two-sample t test was used to analyze the differences between the treatment and control groups. RESULTS: The anterior crossbite in all subjects was corrected after MOA-III therapy. The maxillomandibular relationship showed favorable changes (ANB, Wits, overjet increased significantly, P < 0.001). The maxilla was anteriorly positioned (SNA, ptm-A, ptm-S increased significantly, P < 0.001) with clockwise rotation (PP-FH increased, P < 0.001). The mandible showed a slight downward and backward rotation (SNB decreased, P < 0.05, MP-SN, Y-axis increased, P < 0.05). The length of the mandibular body showed no significant changes (Go-Pg, P > 0.05). Significant upper incisor proclination and lower incisor retroclination were observed (UI-NA increased, P < 0.001, LI-NB, FMIA decreased, P < 0.001). The upper lip moved forward, and the lower lip moved backward (UL-EP increased, P < 0.001, LL-EP decreased, P < 0.05). In the control group, most of the parameters showed normal growth, except for some unfavorable mandibular skeletal and soft tissue changes (Go-Pg, Go-Co, MP-SN, N'-SN-Pg' increased, P < 0.001). Significant positive changes were induced with the MOA-III appliance compared to the untreated group. CONCLUSIONS: The MOA-III was effective for the early treatment of a mild to moderate Class III malocclusion in children.
Several studies have demonstrated that norepinephrine (NE) is the critical neurotransmitter for the regulation of gene expression in the pineal gland. We studied the acute effect of NE stimulation in cultured rat pineal glands using Affymetrix rat genome microarray GeneChip probe arrays. Our data demonstrate that NE stimulation affects regulation of several genes; 44 and 29 genes were up- or down-regulated more than 2.5-fold, respectively. As shown in previous studies, arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase, cyclic AMP responsive element modulator, jun-B and c-fos mRNA levels were increased by NE stimulation. Genes that were not previously reported and increased by NE stimulation in the pineal gland were protein tyrosine phosphatase, nuclear receptors, and activity and neurotransmitter-induced early genes. Unlike up-regulated genes, most of the down-regulated genes were not reported previously. Genes encoding enzymes involved in metabolism and structural proteins were decreased following NE stimulation. Identification of genes affected by NE stimulation would provide valuable information to understanding pineal biology fully.
Cancer of the prostate is still controlled or cured by surgery, radiotherapy, and hormone therapy. The present criteria of complication and prediction are criticized more and more for not being sufficiently reliable, due to the high heterogeneity of prostatic cells. The continuing discoveries of intra- and extracellular mechanisms of the molecular informational network, which allow the continuity or discontinuity of the cell's life, are also related to prostate cancer. The role of androgen receptors is now under close scrutiny, in the light of the knowledge of regulatory genes and their molecular expression. In the near future, a complete study of prostate cancer's DNA is certainly envisaged. Looking forward to the extraordinary applications of molecular biology in this field, this article is aimed at establishing a clear link between the conventional ways of interpreting the clinical expression of prostate cancer and the oncoming applications of genomics and proteomics.
SUMMARY: We have developed PathBuilder, an open-source web application to annotate biological information pertaining to signaling pathways and to create web-based pathway resources. PathBuilder enables annotation of molecular events including protein-protein interactions, enzyme-substrate relationships and protein translocation events either manually or through automated importing of data from other databases. Salient features of PathBuilder include automatic validation of data formats, built-in modules for visualization of pathways, automated import of data from other pathway resources, export of data in several standard data exchange formats and an application programming interface for retrieving existing pathway datasets. AVAILABILITY: PathBuilder is freely available for download at http://pathbuilder.sourceforge.net/ under the terms of GNU lesser general public license (LGPL: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html). The software is platform independent and has been tested on Windows and Linux platforms. CONTACT: pandey@jhmi.edu SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
We show that the chemotactic movements of colonies of the starving amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum are driven by a force that depends on both the direction of propagation (directional sensing) of reaction-diffusion chemotactic waves and on the gradient of the concentration of the chemoattractant, solving the chemotactic wave paradox. It is shown that the directional sensing of amoebae is due to the sensitivity of the cells to the time variation of the concentration of the chemoattractant combined with its spatial gradient. It is also shown that chemotaxis exclusively driven by local concentration gradient leads to unstable local motion, preventing cells from aggregation. These findings show that the formation of mounds, which initiate multicellularity in Dictyostelium discoideum, is caused by the sensitivity of the amoebae due to three factors, namely, to the direction of propagation of the chemoattractant, to its spatial gradient, and to the emergence of cAMP "emitting centres", responsible for the local accumulation of the amoebae.
Previous studies have indicated that children with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) may not achieve optimal bone mass. We evaluated the skeletal characteristics in children and adolescents with IBD. This cross-sectional cohort study comprised 80 IBD patients (median age 14.9 years, range 5-20) with a median disease duration of 3.4 years; 51 had ulcerative colitis, 26 Crohn disease, and 3 unspecified colitis. Eighty age- and gender-matched healthy subjects served as controls. Areal bone mineral density (aBMD), body composition, and vertebral fractures (VFs) were assessed by DXA. Bone age (BA) was determined for IBD patients. Findings were correlated with disease- and treatment-related parameters and biochemistry. IBD patients had lower BA-adjusted lumbar spine and whole-body aBMD (p < 0.001 for both) and whole-body BMC adjusted for height (p = 0.02) than controls. Lean mass and fat mass Z scores did not differ between the groups, but IBD patients had lower whole-body BMC relative to muscle mass (p = 0.006). Despite vitamin D supplementation in 48 %, vitamin D deficiency was common. In IBD cumulative weight-adjusted prednisolone dose >150 mg/kg for the preceding 3 years increased the risk for low whole-body aBMD (OR = 5.5, 95 % CI 1.3-23.3, p = 0.02). VFs were found in 11 % of patients and in 3 % of controls (p = 0.02). IBD in childhood was associated with low aBMD and reduced bone mass accrual relative to muscle mass; the risk for subclinical VFs may be increased. These observations warrant careful follow-up and active preventive measures.
We have designed a new genotyping scheme for molecular diagnosis of the different Leishmania species pathogenic to humans. This scheme is based on PCR amplified sequences from the gene for the spliced leader RNA (mini-exon). This target was selected because it is present as tandem repeats (100 to 200 copies) in the genus Leishmania and other kinetoplastida, but is absent from the mammalian hosts and the sandfly vectors. The exon is highly conserved, whereas the intron and non-transcribed spacer region vary in size and sequence among different species. Thus, it was possible to amplify DNA from both Old and New World pathogenic Leishmania complexes using a single pair of primers deriving from the conserved region of the mini-exon tandem repeat. Species identification was performed by digesting mini-exon PCR products with one or two different restriction enzymes. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) generated species-specific patterns of bands visualized in agarose gels, which allowed to differentiate each species unequivocally.
BACKGROUND: Carbonic anhydrase enzymes (CA) catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide to bicarbonate in mammalian cells. Trans-membrane transport of CA-produced bicarbonate contributes significantly to cellular pH regulation. A body of evidence implicates pH-regulatory processes in the hypertrophic growth pathway characteristic of hearts as they fail. In particular, Na+/H+ exchange (NHE) activation is pro-hypertrophic and CA activity activates NHE. Recently Cardrase (6-ethoxyzolamide), a CA inhibitor, was found to prevent and revert agonist-stimulated cardiac hypertrophy (CH) in cultured cardiomyocytes. Our goal thus was to determine whether hypertrophied human hearts have altered expression of CA isoforms. METHODS: We measured CA expression in hypertrophied human hearts to begin to examine the role of carbonic anhydrase in progression of human heart failure. Ventricular biopsies were obtained from patients undergoing cardiac surgery (CS, n = 14), or heart transplantation (HT, n = 13). CS patients presented mild/moderate concentric left ventricular hypertrophy and normal right ventricles, with preserved ventricular function; ejection fractions were ~60%. Conversely, HT patients with failing hearts presented CH or ventricular dilation accompanied by ventricular dysfunction and EF values of 20%. Non-hypertrophic, non-dilated ventricular samples served as controls. RESULTS: Expression of atrial and brain natriuretic peptide (ANP and BNP) were markers of CH. Hypertrophic ventricles presented increased expression of CAII, CAIV, ANP, and BNP, mRNA levels, which increased in failing hearts, measured by quantitative real-time PCR. CAII, CAIV, and ANP protein expression also increased approximately two-fold in hypertrophic/dilated ventricles. CONCLUSIONS: These results, combined with in vitro data that CA inhibition prevents and reverts CH, suggest that increased carbonic anhydrase expression is a prognostic molecular marker of cardiac hypertrophy.
Constitutive Hedgehog (Hh) pathway activity is associated with initiation of neoplasia, but its role in the continued growth of established tumors is unclear. Here, we investigate the therapeutic efficacy of the Hh pathway antagonist cyclopamine in preclinical models of medulloblastoma, the most common malignant brain tumor in children. Cyclopamine treatment of murine medulloblastoma cells blocked proliferation in vitro and induced changes in gene expression consistent with initiation of neuronal differentiation and loss of neuronal stem cell-like character. This compound also caused regression of murine tumor allografts in vivo and induced rapid death of cells from freshly resected human medulloblastomas, but not from other brain tumors, thus establishing a specific role for Hh pathway activity in medulloblastoma growth.
We report here on our latest developments in the forward and inverse problems of electrocardiology. In the forward problem, a coupled cellular model of cardiac excitation-contraction is embedded within an anatomically realistic model of the cardiac ventricles, which is itself embedded within a torso model. This continuum modelling framework allows the effects of cellular-level activity on the surface electrocardiogram (ECG) to be carefully examined. Furthermore, the contributions of contraction and local ischemia on body surface recordings can also be elucidated. Such information can provide theoretical limits to the sensitivity and ultimately the detection capability of body surface ECG recordings. Despite being very useful, such detailed forward modelling is not directly applicable when seeking to use densely sampled ECG information to assess a patient in a clinical environment (the inverse problem). In such a situation patient specific models must be constructed and, due to the nature of the inverse problem, the level of detail that can be reliably reproduced is limited. Extensive simulation studies have shown that the accuracy with which the heart is localised within the torso is the primary limiting factor. To further identify the practical performance capabilities of the current inverse algorithms, high quality experimental data is urgently needed. We have been working towards such an objective with a number of groups, including our local hospital in Auckland. At that hospital, in patients undergoing catheter ablation surgery, up to 256 simultaneous body surface signals were recorded by using various catheter pacing protocols. The geometric information required to customize the heart and torso model was obtained using a combination of ultrasound and laser scanning technologies. Our initial results indicate that such geometric imaging modalities are sufficient to produce promising inversely-constructed activation profiles.
Indonesian native chickens are considered an important genetic resource, particularly with respect to their excellent traits for meat and egg production. However, few molecular genetic studies of these native chickens have been conducted. We analyzed the genetic diversity and differentiation of 4 populations of Indonesian native chickens: Black Kedu (BK), Kedu (KD), Kampung (LOC), and Arab (AR). Blood samples from 188 individuals were collected in central and western Java. Genomic DNA was genotyped using 98 autosomal SNP markers, of which 87 were found to be polymorphic. The proportion of polymorphic loci and the average heterozygosity of each population were in the range of 0.765 to 0.878 and 0.224 to 0.263, respectively. The 4 populations of Indonesian chickens appeared to be derived from 3 genetic populations (K = 3): maximum likelihood clustering showed that the BK variety and AR breed were each assigned to a distinct cluster, whereas the LOC ecotype and KD variety were admixed populations with similar proportions of membership. Principal components analysis revealed that eigenvector 1 separated BK and AR from the other 2 populations. Neighbor-joining trees constructed from pairwise distance matrix (F(ST)) estimates, for individuals and between populations, corroborated that the LOC ecotype and KD variety were related closely, whereas the BK variety and AR breed diverged at greater distances. These results also confirmed the usefulness of SNP markers for the study of genetic diversity.
Cell-associated herpesvirus of turkeys (HVT) was inoculated in ovo at various stages of incubation. Chickens hatching from these eggs were tested for anti-HVT antibodies by several serologic procedures including enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, indirect immunofluorescence assays, and western blot. Viremic chickens that remained free of detectable antibodies were considered tolerant to HVT. Chickens exposed to HVT at embryonation day 14 or earlier had 6-33% incidence of tolerance. Tolerant chickens developed persistent HVT viremia. A preliminary challenge experiment provided circumstantial evidence that tolerant to HVT may be associated with reduced resistance to virulent Marek's disease virus. Tolerance to HVT did not influence the ability of the chickens to produce antibodies against an extraneous antigen or respond to a T cell mitogen.
Protein B23/nucleophosmin/numatrin (B23) is a key nucleolar/nuclear matrix-associated protein required for cell growth-related functions, such as rRNA synthesis. Protein kinase CK2 (CK2) (formerly casein kinase 2, a protein Ser/Thr kinase signal that is involved in cell growth and cell death) mediates phosphorylation of B23, thereby influencing its functional activity. Here we have delineated the dynamics of B23 and its link to CK2 status in response to altered growth stimuli and induction of apoptosis in cultured prostate cells and in rat prostate cells in vivo. Our studies employing PC-3 and ALVA-41 prostate cancer cells demonstrated colocalization of CK2 and B23 in the nucleus. Further, CK2 and B23 underwent coordinate modulation in the nucleus related to their nucleocytoplasmic shuttling in response to induction of apoptotic activity in cells caused by downregulation of CK2 or by treatment with other apoptosis-inducing agents. These alterations in nuclear association of B23 occurred in the absence of a significant change in the level of cytoplasmic B23. Similar studies in the in vivo model of rat prostate epithelial cells subjected to androgen deprivation (that resulted in loss of nuclear CK2 and induction of apoptosis) demonstrated dynamic modulation of nuclear matrix-associated B23 without a significant change in its cytoplasmic level. These changes were reversed by androgen-mediated growth response in the prostate. Our results suggest that CK2-mediated phosphorylation of B23 is essential for its retention in the nucleus and that coordinated nuclear localization of B23 and CK2 is dynamically regulated in response to altered growth status in the cell.
The profusion of high-throughput instruments and the explosion of new results in the scientific literature, particularly in molecular biomedicine, is both a blessing and a curse to the bench researcher. Even knowledgeable and experienced scientists can benefit from computational tools that help navigate this vast and rapidly evolving terrain. In this paper, we describe a novel computational approach to this challenge, a knowledge-based system that combines reading, reasoning, and reporting methods to facilitate analysis of experimental data. Reading methods extract information from external resources, either by parsing structured data or using biomedical language processing to extract information from unstructured data, and track knowledge provenance. Reasoning methods enrich the knowledge that results from reading by, for example, noting two genes that are annotated to the same ontology term or database entry. Reasoning is also used to combine all sources into a knowledge network that represents the integration of all sorts of relationships between a pair of genes, and to calculate a combined reliability score. Reporting methods combine the knowledge network with a congruent network constructed from experimental data and visualize the combined network in a tool that facilitates the knowledge-based analysis of that data. An implementation of this approach, called the Hanalyzer, is demonstrated on a large-scale gene expression array dataset relevant to craniofacial development. The use of the tool was critical in the creation of hypotheses regarding the roles of four genes never previously characterized as involved in craniofacial development; each of these hypotheses was validated by further experimental work.
Automobile shredder residue (ASR) fraction (size <0.25mm) can be considered as hazardous due to presence of high concentrations of heavy metals. Hydrogen peroxide combined with nitric acid has been used for the recovery of heavy metals (Zn, Cu, Mn, Fe, Ni, Pb, Cd and Cr) from the fine fraction of ASR. A sequential extraction procedure has also been used to determine the heavy metal speciation in the fine fraction of ASR before and after treatment. A risk analysis of the fine fraction of ASR before and after treatment was conducted to assess the bioavailability and eco-toxicity of heavy metals. These results showed that the recovery of heavy metals from ASR increased with an increase in the hydrogen peroxide concentration. A high concentration of heavy metals was found to be present in Cbio fractions (the sum of the exchangeable and carbonate fractions) in the fine fraction of ASR, indicating high toxicity risk. The Cbio rate of all selected heavy metals was found to range from 8.6% to 33.4% of the total metal content in the fine fraction of ASR. After treatment, Cbio was reduced to 0.3-3.3% of total metal upon a treatment with 2.0% hydrogen peroxide. On the basis of the risk assessment code (RAC), the environmental risk values for heavy metals in the fine fraction of ASR reflect high risk/medium risk. However, after treatment, the heavy metals would be categorized as low risk/no risk. The present study concludes that hydrogen peroxide combined with nitric acid is a promising treatment for the recovery and reduction of the eco-toxicity risk of heavy metals in ASR.
Postsynaptic long-term potentiation of inhibition (iLTP) can rely on increased GABAA receptors (GABA(A)Rs) at synapses by promoted exocytosis. However, the molecular mechanisms that enhance the clustering of postsynaptic GABA(A)Rs during iLTP remain obscure. Here we demonstrate that during chemically induced iLTP (chem-iLTP), GABA(A)Rs are immobilized and confined at synapses, as revealed by single-particle tracking of individual GABA(A)Rs in cultured hippocampal neurons. Chem-iLTP expression requires synaptic recruitment of the scaffold protein gephyrin from extrasynaptic areas, which in turn is promoted by CaMKII-dependent phosphorylation of GABA(A)R-beta3-Ser(383). Impairment of gephyrin assembly prevents chem-iLTP and, in parallel, blocks the accumulation and immobilization of GABA(A)Rs at synapses. Importantly, an increase of gephyrin and GABA(A)R similar to those observed during chem-iLTP in cultures were found in the rat visual cortex following an experience-dependent plasticity protocol that potentiates inhibitory transmission in vivo. Thus, phospho-GABA(A)R-beta3-dependent accumulation of gephyrin at synapses and receptor immobilization are crucial for iLTP expression and are likely to modulate network excitability.
This review describes the problems of disperse endocrine system and APUD-system morphology, summarizes some debatable issues of single endocrine cell biology. The data presented refer to the history of both systems discovery, morphological methods of their study, developmental sources, their structural organization and physiological roles of their cells. The significance of single endocrine cells in the regulation of the organism functions is discussed.
In this study, 52 patients were studied to elucidate the relative impact of resection of localized pancreaticobiliary adenocarcinoma (PBC) on circulating factors of tumour-associated angiogenesis e.g. tissue factor bearing microparticles (TFMP) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and their clinicopathological significance to angiogenesis markers in cancer tissue from PBC patients. Angiogenesis array analysis on serum samples revealed that surgical resection of tumour lesion in PBC patients affects the levels of a panel of angiogenesis-related molecules, including VEGF that was verified by ELISA to significantly reduce (median & IQR: 1003(369-2000) vs. 457(159-834) pg/ml; p<0.05). Correspondingly, a significant decrease in the angiogenic activity (decreased capillary tube formation; p<0.05) of serum samples after the surgery was also found. Despite a decrease in number of circulating TFMP after surgery, this did not reach statistical significance; there was a significant reduction in pro-coagulant activity (prolonged prothrombin time, p<0.001) post-operatively. In addition, the activity of total microparticles (MP activity assay, p<0.05) was decreased significantly. Immunohistochemical staining of tumour tissue revealed a strong correlation between the microvessel density (MVD) and VEGF expression. Also, higher levels of circulating TFMP or TF related activity (prothrombin time) correlated significantly with TF expression and MVD on tumour tissues from PBC patients. These findings suggest that in pancreaticobiliary adenocarcinoma TF related angiogenesis drivers are equally significant to VEGF ones, raising the clinical question of whether the effectiveness of angiogenesis targeting studies could be improved through the 'dual' targeting of these pathways in PBC.
BACKGROUND: The optimum international normalized ratio (INR) monitoring frequency for hospitalized patients receiving warfarin is unknown. OBJECTIVE: Assess relationship between daily versus less frequent INR monitoring and overanticoagulation and warfarin-related adverse events. DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study using Medicare Patient Safety Monitoring System data. SETTING: Randomly selected acute care hospitals across the United States. PATIENTS: Patients hospitalized from 2009 to 2013 for pneumonia, acute cardiac disease, or surgery who received warfarin. INTERVENTIONS: None. MEASUREMENTS: (1) Association between frequency of INR monitoring and an INR >/=6.0 or warfarin-related adverse event. (2) Association between the rate of change of the INR and a subsequent INR >/=5.0 and >/=6.0. RESULTS: Among 8529 patients who received warfarin for >/=3 days, for 1549 (18.2%) the INR was not measured on 2 or more days. These patients had higher propensity-adjusted odds ratios (ORs) of having a warfarin-associated adverse event (OR: 1.48, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.02-2.17) for cardiac patients and surgical patients (OR: 1.73, 95% CI: 1.20-2.48), with no significant association for pneumonia patients. Cardiac and pneumonia patients with 1 day or more without an INR measurement had higher propensity-adjusted ORs of having an INR >/=6.0 (OR: 1.61, 95% CI: 1.07-2.41 and OR: 1.92, 95% CI: 1.36-2.71, respectively). A 1-day increase in the INR of >/=0.9 occurred in 621 patients (12.5%) and predicted a subsequent INR of >/=6.0 (positive likelihood ratio of 4.2). CONCLUSION: Daily INR measurement and recognition of a rapidly rising INR might decrease the frequency of warfarin-associated adverse events in hospitalized patients.
In glucose-limited aerobic chemostat cultures of a wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae and a derived hxk2 null strain, metabolic fluxes were identical. However, the concentrations of intracellular metabolites, especially fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, and hexose-phosphorylating activities differed. Interestingly, the hxk2 null strain showed a higher maximal growth rate and higher Crabtree threshold dilution rate, revealing a higher oxidative capacity for this strain. After a pulse of glucose, aerobic glucose-limited cultures of wild-type S. cerevisiae displayed an overshoot in the intracellular concentrations of glucose 6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, and fructose 1,6-bisphosphate before a new steady state was established, in contrast to the hxk2 null strain which reached a new steady state without overshoot of these metabolites. At low dilution rates the overshoot of intracellular metabolites in the wild-type strain coincided with the immediate production of ethanol after the glucose pulse. In contrast, in the hxk2 null strain the production of ethanol started gradually. However, in spite of the initial differences in ethanol production and dynamic behaviour of the intracellular metabolites, the steady-state fluxes after transition from glucose limitation to glucose excess were not significantly different in the wild-type strain and the hxk2 null strain at any dilution rate.
BACKGROUND: An increasing number of genomic studies interrogating more than one molecular level is published. Bioinformatics follows biological practice, and recent years have seen a surge in methodology for the integrative analysis of genomic data. Often such analyses require knowledge of which elements of one platform link to those of another. Although important, many integrative analyses do not or insufficiently detail the matching of the platforms. RESULTS: We describe, illustrate and discuss six matching procedures. They are implemented in the R-package sigaR (available from Bioconductor). The principles underlying the presented matching procedures are generic, and can be combined to form new matching approaches or be applied to the matching of other platforms. Illustration of the matching procedures on a variety of data sets reveals how the procedures differ in the use of the available data, and may even lead to different results for individual genes. CONCLUSIONS: Matching of data from multiple genomics platforms is an important preprocessing step for many integrative bioinformatic analysis, for which we present six generic procedures, both old and new. They have been implemented in the R-package sigaR, available from Bioconductor.
AIMS: The present study analyzed the association between weekend ethanol and high-sucrose diet on oxygen consumption, lipid profile, oxidative stress and hepatic energy metabolism. Because resveratrol (RS, 3,5,4'-trans-trihydroxystilbene) has been implicated as a modulator of alcohol-independent cardiovascular protection attributed to red wine, we also determined whether RS could change the damage done by this lifestyle. METHODS: Male Wistar 24 rats receiving standard chow were divided into four groups (n = 6/group): (C) water throughout the experimental period; (E) 30% ethanol 3 days/week, water 4 days/week; (ES) a mixture of 30% ethanol and 30% sucrose 3 days/week, drinking 30% sucrose 4 days/week; (ESR) 30% ethanol and 30% sucrose containing 6 mg/l RS 3 days/week, drinking 30% sucrose 4 days/week. RESULTS: After 70 days the body weight was highest in ESR rats. E rats had higher energy expenditure (resting metabolic rate), oxygen consumption (VO(2)), fat oxidation, serum triacylglycerol (TG) and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) than C. ES rats normalized calorimetric parameters and enhanced carbohydrate oxidation. ESR ameliorated calorimetric parameters, reduced TG, VLDL and lipid hydroperoxide/total antioxidant substances, as well enhanced high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL/TG ratio. Hepatic hydroxyacyl coenzyme-A dehydrogenase (OHADH)/citrate synthase ratio was lower in E and ES rats than in C. OHADH was highest in ESR rats. CONCLUSIONS: The present study brought new insights on weekend alcohol consumption, demonstrating for the first time, that this pattern of ethanol exposure induced dyslipidemic profile, calorimetric and hepatic metabolic changes which resemble that of the alcoholism. No synergistic effects were found with weekend ethanol and high-sucrose intake. RS was advantageous in weekend drinking and high-sucrose intake condition ameliorating hepatic metabolism and improving risk factors for cardiovascular damage.
Major histocompatibility complex class II (MHCII) genes code for proteins that bind and present antigenic peptides and trigger the adaptive immune response. We present a broad geographical study of MHCII DA beta1 (DAB) and DB beta1 (DBB) variants of the koala (Phascolarctos cinereus; n=191) from 12 populations across eastern Australia, with a total of 13 DAB and 7 DBB variants found. We identified greater MHCII variation and, possibly, additional gene copies in koala populations in the north (Queensland and New South Wales) relative to the south (Victoria), confirmed by STRUCTURE analyses and genetic differentiation using analysis of molecular variance. The higher MHCII diversity in the north relative to south could potentially be attributed to (i) significant founder effect in Victorian populations linked to historical translocation of bottlenecked koala populations and (ii) increased pathogen-driven balancing selection and/or local genetic drift in the north. Low MHCII genetic diversity in koalas from the south could reduce their potential response to disease, although the three DAB variants found in the south had substantial sequence divergence between variants. This study assessing MHCII diversity in the koala with historical translocations in some populations contributes to understanding the effects of population translocations on functional genetic diversity.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the feasibility of using gap-PCR for routine screening of alpha-thalassemia in clinical laboratory. METHODS: A total of 382 clinical blood samples randomly collected from the population of Zhuhai city were screened for alpha-thalassemia determinants with hematological and gap-PCR method respectively in a double-blind manner. Parallel analysis with Southern blotting was performed to verify the genotyping results by PCR. RESULTS: Of the 382 samples tested, 3 common alpha-thalassemia genes with genotypes of --(SEA)/alpha alpha, -alpha(3.7)/alpha alpha and -alpha(4.2)/alpha alpha were detected in 21 (5.50%), 7 (1.83%) and 3 (0.79%) cases respectively by gap-PCR, including 7 cases with normal phenotype and 3 case of iron-deficiency anemia. The overall incidence of alpha-thalassemia was 8.12% in the population of Zhuhai city, as determined by gap-PCR, in total agreement with the results by Southern blotting. Only 21 of the 31 alpha-thalassemia cases were identified by hematological analysis (besides 2 cases with alpha-thalassemia phenotype undetermined), which had a false-negative rate of 32.3%. Seven silent alpha-thalassemia and 3 mild alpha-thalassemia cases failed to be detected by hematological analysis, resulting in a rate of 2.62% for failure of detection. CONCLUSION: Gap-PCR method is specific and feasible as a better alternative for alpha-thalassemia screening, especially advantageous in detecting silent carriers in comparison with hematological method.
Although cyclin D1 plays a major role during cell cycle progression and is involved in human tumourigenesis, its domain structure is still poorly understood. In the present study, we have generated a series of cyclin D1 N- and C-terminal deletion constructs. These mutants were used to define the domains required for transformation of rat embryonal fibroblasts (REF) in cooperation with activated Ha-ras and and to establish correlations with defined biochemical properties of cyclin D1. Protein binding and REF assays showed that the region of the cyclin box required for the interaction with CDK4 as well as C-terminal sequences determining protein stability were crucial for transformation. Surprisingly, however, the N-terminal deletion of 20 amino acids which impaired pRb kinase activity did not affect the transforming ability of cyclin D1. Likewise, no effect on transformation was observed with mutants defective in p21CIP interaction. These observations argue against a crucial role of pRb inactivation or p21CIP squelching in cyclin D1-mediated transformation.
BACKGROUND: The most severe sequela of measles virus infection is subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), a fatal disease of the central nervous system that generally develops 7-10 years after infection. From 1989 through 1991, a resurgence of measles occurred in the United States, with 55,622 cases of measles reported. The purpose of the present study was to identify cases of SSPE that were associated with the resurgence of measles and to calculate the risk of developing SSPE. METHODS: Brain tissue samples obtained from 11 patients with a presumptive diagnosis of SSPE were tested for the presence of measles virus RNA. Measles virus genotypes were determined by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and by analysis of the sequences of the PCR products. A search of the literature was conducted to identify reports of cases of SSPE in persons residing in the United States who had measles during 1989-1991. RESULTS: The measles virus sequences derived from brain tissue samples obtained from 11 patients with SSPE confirmed the diagnosis of SSPE. For 5 of the 11 patients with SSPE who had samples tested by RT-PCR and for 7 patients with SSPE who were identified in published case reports, it was determined that the development of SSPE was associated with the measles resurgence that occurred in the United States during 1989-1991. The estimated risk of developing SSPE was 10-fold higher than the previous estimate reported for the United States in 1982. CONCLUSIONS: Vaccination against measles prevents more cases of SSPE than was originally estimated.
Intracerebroventricular kainate treatment in rats induces neuronal cell death, followed by proliferation and hypertrophy of glial cells in the lesioned area. To further understand the activated signal transduction pathways and to get insights into potential target gene activation, the present study aims to elucidate long-term effects on the phosphorylation state of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in the hippocampal formation. One to four weeks after kainate injection, we found high levels of phosphorylated and hence activated CREB (pCREB) in glial cells of the degenerating CA fields. As shown by electron microscopy, pCREB immunoreactivity was present in reactive astrocytes, oligodendrocyte precursor cells and endothelial cells of blood vessels. It is postulated that pCREB could drive the expression of downstream genes in these cells to promote cell proliferation and survival.
In this study, the clinical specimens taken from 390 patients who were prediagnosed as onychomycosis have been investigated by direct microscopy and culture methods, in the Mycology Unit of Central Laboratory of Kocaeli University Medical Faculty. Twenty-one (41.2%) of the 51 microscopically positive samples revealed positive cultures for dermatophytes, whereas 32 (9.4%) samples were culture positive among the 399 samples which were microscopically negative. The most frequently isolated dermatophyte was found to be Trichophyton rubrum (73.6%), followed by Trichophyton mentagrophytes (24.5%) and Microsporum canis (1.9%).
OBJECTIVE: We report the first case of contact lens-related Bacillus cereus keratitis and ulcer associated with B. cereus contamination of the contact lens case. This is also the first study to investigate and establish the genetic identity of an organism isolated from the cornea and contact lens case in a patient with contact lens-associated keratitis. DESIGN: Case report. INTERVENTION AND TESTING: Conjunctival swabs and corneal scrapings from the left eye were inoculated for culture. The contact lens case was also cultured. Antibiotic susceptibility testing was determined by agar disk diffusion method. Initial treatment with topical ciprofloxacin and fortified tobramycin was given. Genetic analysis of the bacterial isolates was performed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus primers (ERIC; ERIC-PCR). Susceptibility of B. cereus to heat and contact lens disinfecting solutions containing hydrogen peroxide, hydrogen peroxide-catalase, polyquaternium-1, and polyaminopropyl biguanide (PAPB) was tested. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical features, culture results, and antibiotic susceptibility testing were analyzed. The ERIC-PCR amplification products were visualized in ethidium bromide-stained agarose gel. Bacterial growth after exposure to heat and contact lens disinfecting solutions was assessed on blood agar plates. RESULTS: B. cereus was grown from the conjunctiva, corneal ulcer, and contact lens case. All isolates were sensitive to gentamicin, tobramycin, ciprofloxacin, clindamycin, and vancomycin. The corneal ulcer gradually healed over the next 6 days. Results of ERIC-PCR showed that the isolates from the cornea and contact lens case were indistinguishable, thus demonstrating the source of infecting organism to be the contaminated contact lens case. Exposure to a temperature of 80 degrees C for 20 minutes and incubation with hydrogen peroxide-catalase, polyquaternium-1, and PAPB for the minimum recommended time failed to kill B. cereus. Only exposure to hydrogen peroxide for 4 hours eradicated the organism. CONCLUSIONS: B. cereus should be considered a possible etiologic agent of contact lens-associated keratitis. Heat and many types of contact lens disinfecting solutions may be ineffective in eradicating B. cereus from contaminated contact lens cases. Only prolonged exposure to hydrogen peroxide appeared to be sporicidal to B. cereus in this study.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a potent mechanism for local silencing of gene expression and can be used to study loss-of-function phenotypes in mammalian cells. We used RNAi to knockdown specifically the expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the enzyme of acetylcholine biosynthesis, both in cultured cells and in the adult brain. We first identified a 19-nucleotide sequence in the coding region of rat and mouse ChAT transcripts that constitutes a target for potent silencing of ChAT expression by RNAi. We generated a lentiviral vector that produces both a small hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting ChAT mRNAs and the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) reporter protein to facilitate identification of transduced cells. In the cholinergic cell line NG108-15, there was at least 90% less of the ChAT protein, as measured by assaying its enzymatic activity, 3 days postinfection with this vector than in cells infected with a control vector. The vector was used to transduce cholinergic neurons in vivo and reduced ChAT expression strongly and specifically in the cholinergic neurons of the medial septum in adult rats, without affecting the expression of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter. This lentiviral vector is thus a powerful tool for specific inactivation of cholinergic neurotransmission and can therefore be used to study the role of cholinergic nuclei in the brain. This lentiviral-mediated RNAi approach will also allow the development of new animal models of diseases in which cholinergic neurotransmission is specifically altered.
Reactions of a pivalamidato-bridged head-to-head (HH) platinum(III) binuclear complex with 2-methyl-1,3-butadiene (isoprene) and p-styrenesulfonate and of an alpha-pyrrolidonato-bridged HH platinum(III) binuclear complex with p-styrenesulfonate were studied kinetically using UV-vis spectrophotometry and (1)H NMR spectroscopy, and detailed reaction mechanisms are proposed. Pt(III) binuclear complexes react with p-styrenesulfonate in four successive steps with mechanisms similar to that for an HH alpha-pyridonato-bridged Pt(III) binuclear complex with p-styrenesulfonate. In the case of isoprene, four steps were observed on the basis of UV-vis spectrophotometry. However, the reaction kinetics for steps 1 and 2 correspond to those for the previous reaction system, and those for steps 3 and 4 do not correspond to those for the previous system or to those observed by using (1)H NMR spectroscopy for the present isoprene system. By using UV-vis spectrophotometry, it was shown that isoprene preferentially pi-coordinates to the Pt(N(2)O(2)) atom via the double bond adjacent to the methyl group in step 1. In step 2, a second isoprene molecule pi-coordinates to the Pt(N(4)) atom, which is the rate-determining step, followed by nucleophilic attack of a water molecule on the pi-coordinated isoprene on the Pt(N(2)O(2)) atom to form two isomeric sigma-complexes. In the same step, pi-coordinated isoprene on the Pt(N(4)) atom of the sigma-complexes is released. This is different from the reaction of the Pt(III) binuclear complexes with other olefins. In step 3, reductive elimination of the sigma-complexes occurs to form two diols and the HH pivalamidato-bridged Pt(II) binuclear complex. Finally, acid decomposition of the Pt(II) binuclear complex occurs to form monomers in step 4. From (1)H NMR spectroscopic observations, fast isomerization between sigma-complexes and reductive elimination of the sigma-complexes occurs in step 3, and isomerization from a 1,4-diol to a 1,2-diol occurs in step 4.
Water supplies and water distribution systems represent potential targets for terrorist activity in the United States because of the critical need for water in every sector of our industrialized society. Even short-term disruption of water service can significantly impact a community, and intentional contamination of a municipal water system as part of a terrorist attack could lead to serious medical, public health, and economic consequences. Most practicing physicians and public health professionals in the United States have received limited training in the recognition and evaluation of waterborne disease from either natural or intentional contamination of water. Therefore, they are poorly prepared to detect water-related disease resulting from intentional contamination and may not be adequately trained to respond appropriately to a terrorist assault on water. The purpose of this review is to address this critical information gap and present relevant epidemiologic and clinical information for public health and medical practitioners who may be faced with addressing the recognition, management, and prevention of water terrorism in their communities.
Organic cation transporters (Octs) play an important role in transporting cationic xeno- and endobiotics across biological membranes. Little is known about Octs in mice; therefore, the tissue distribution and developmental changes in the mRNA expression of Octs in mice were quantified. Oct1, Oct2, Oct3, Octn1, Octn2, and Octn3 mRNA expression was quantified in 14 tissues from male and female mice using the branched DNA signal amplification assay. Oct1 mRNA expression was highest in kidney, followed by liver. Oct2 mRNA was almost exclusively expressed in kidney, with male mice having twice that in female mice. The higher expression of Oct2 in male mice is due to testosterone. Oct3 mRNA was most highly expressed in placenta, ovary, and uterus, but was expressed at low levels in most tissues. Octn1 and Octn2 mRNA expression was similar, with the highest levels in kidney followed by small intestine. Octn3 mRNA was almost exclusively expressed in testes. The developmental expression of Oct1, Oct2, Octn1, and Octn2 mRNA in kidneys as well as Oct1 in liver was determined in young mice. Ontogenic expression data indicate that each of the Octs approached adult expression levels by about 3 weeks of age. The gender difference in Oct mRNA expression did not become apparent until day 30 after birth. The differences in tissue distribution of the Octs may play an important role in drug disposition to various tissues. Furthermore, low expression of the Octs in young animals may affect the pharmacokinetic behavior of drugs compared with that in adults.
Although both sporadic colorectal cancer (CRC) and colitis-associated CRC arise from dysplastic precursor lesions and share several molecular alterations, the nature of the dysplasia and the frequency and timing of several of the key molecular changes differ enough to consider colitis-associated CRC a rather unique entity. To date, cancer surveillance in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's colitis rests upon the detection of dysplasia. However, because there are considerable limitations to the detection and interpretation of dysplasia, there is a need for other molecular markers to complement the histologic analysis of dysplasia. Because patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) undergo repeated, periodic surveillance colonoscopies, it affords an opportunity to study marker expression over time. Of the few markers that have been studied chronologically, aneuploidy, p53, and mucin-associated sialyl-Tn antigen expression each hold promise as markers of CRC risk in IBD. It will be important to study whether these markers, or other panels of gene or protein expression, can identify patients at highest risk for developing CRC in future clinical studies.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Current tools to predict outcomes after kidney transplantation are inadequate. The objective of this study was to determine the association of perioperative urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and IL-18 with poor 1-year allograft function (return to dialysis or estimated GFR<30 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)). DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and IL-18 from early post-transplant urine was measured in this prospective, multicenter study of deceased-donor kidney transplant recipients. The outcome of poor allograft function at 1 year relative to these biomarkers using multivariable logistic regression and net reclassification improvement was examined. Also, the interaction between delayed graft function and the biomarkers on the outcome were evaluated, and the change in biomarkers over consecutive days related to the outcome using trend tests was examined. RESULTS: Mean age for the 153 recipients was 54 +/- 13 years. Delayed graft function occurred in 42%, and 24 (16%) recipients had the 1-year outcome. Upper median values for neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and IL-18 on the first postoperative day had adjusted odds ratios (95% confidence interval) of 6.0 (1.5-24.0) and 5.5 (1.4-21.5), respectively. Net reclassification improvement (95% confidence interval) was significant for neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and IL-18 at 36% (1%-71%) and 45% (8%-83%), respectively. There was no significant interaction between biomarkers and delayed graft function on the outcome. Change in biomarkers moderately trended with the outcome. CONCLUSIONS: Perioperative urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and IL-18 are associated with poor 1-year allograft function, suggesting their potential for identifying patients for therapies that minimize the risk of additional injury.
Polymorphism of haptoglobin in human serum was first discovered over 60 years ago. A new paper characterizes the complex structural variation at the HP locus in detail and, by using imputation from flanking SNP genotype data, shows that it affects blood cholesterol levels.
BACKGROUND: Influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus infection in Norwegian pigs was largely subclinical. This study tested the hypothesis that the infection causes negligible impact on pigs' growth performance in terms of feed conversion efficiency, daily feed intake, daily growth, age on reaching 100 kg bodyweight and overall feed intake. A sample of 1955 pigs originating from 43 breeding herds was classified into five infection status groups; seronegative pigs (n = 887); seropositive pigs (n = 874); pigs positive for virus at bodyweight between 33 kg and 60 kg (n = 123); pigs positive for virus at bodyweight between 61 kg and 80 kg (n = 34) and pigs positive for virus at bodyweight between 81 kg and 100 kg (n = 37). Each pig had daily recordings of feed intake and bodyweight from 33 kg to 100 kg. Marginal effects of the virus infection on the outcomes were estimated by multi-level linear regression, which accounted for known fixed effects (breed, birthdate, average daily feed intake and growth phase) and random effects (cluster effects of pig and herd). RESULTS: The seropositive and virus positive pigs had decreased (P value<0.05) growth performance compared to seronegative pigs even though feed intake was not decreased. Reduced feed conversion efficiency led to lower average daily growth, additional feed requirement and longer time needed to reach the 100 kg bodyweight. The effects were more marked (P value<0.03) in pigs infected at a younger age and lasted a longer period. Despite increased feed intake observed, their growth rates were lower and they took more time to reach 100 kg bodyweight compared to the seronegative pigs. CONCLUSION: Our study rejected the null hypothesis that the virus infection had negligible adverse effects on growth performance of Norwegian pigs.
BACKGROUND: The "zero death from asthma strategy" in the medical treatment for bronchial asthma has been promoted by the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare from 2006, and it indicates that medical and non-medical specialists, as well as pharmacists, should cooperate, and strives to build cooperation which is suited the actual conditions of an area. It is also important for COPD. Although hospitals in some areas cooperate with clinics and pharmacies, the overall concept of cooperation appears to be absent in most Japanese hospitals. METHOD: A questionnaire was administered in early March, 2012 to 477 allergology institutions, and was authorized by an educational establishment. RESULT: Among 246 replies from the institutions, cooperation between hospitals and clinics was carried out by 98 institutions (39.8%) specializing in bronchial asthma, and in 64 institutions (37.2%) specializing in COPD. However, cooperation tools were used in only 37 of these institutions (15.0%). The ability to fill prescriptions outside the hospital was available in 209 institutions (85.0%). One-hundred and seventeen institutions (47.6%) replied that they have no tools for hospital-pharmacy cooperation. Direct indications were written in prescriptions by 82 institutions (33.3). CONCLUSION: In order to build inter-regional association and to equalize medical treatment, we suggest that developing tools and organization for cooperation between health professionals who treat patients with bronchial asthma and COPD is necessary.
Ligand-dependent down-regulation that leads to rapid and extensive loss of protein is characteristic of several nuclear steroid receptors, including human progesterone receptors (PRs). In breast cancer cells, >95% of PRs are degraded 6 h after the start of progestin treatment. The mechanism for down-regulation is unknown. We examined the role of PR phosphorylation by mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in this process. Lactacystin and calpain inhibitor I, specific inhibitors of the 26S proteasome, blocked progestin-induced down-regulation, and ubiquitinated conjugates of PR accumulated in cells. Ligand-dependent PR degradation was also blocked by specific inhibition of p42 and p44 MAPKs. To define the targets of phosphorylation by this kinase, two serine/proline MAPK consensus sites on PR were mutated. We demonstrate that mutation of PR serine-294 to alanine (S294A) specifically and completely prevents ligand-dependent receptor down-regulation. We also find that rapid, ligand-independent degradation of immature PR intermediates occurs by a proteasome-mediated pathway. These results demonstrate that PR destruction, by either of two alternate routes, is mediated by the 26S proteasome. Specifically, down-regulation of mature PRs occurs by a mechanism in which ligand binding activates PR phosphorylation by MAPKs at a unique serine residue, which then targets the receptors for degradation.
We tried to study the possible effects of lipoic acid (LA) on adhesion molecule expression and its underlying mechanism in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disorders. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity were determined after endothelial cells were exposed to high glucose in the absence and presence of LA. Coincubation of endothelial cells with high glucose for 24 h resulted in a significant increase of monocyte-endothelial cell adhesion and the expression of ICAM-1 (P < 0.01). These effects were abolished by LA and LA significantly increased eNOS activities (P < 0.01). These findings suggested that LA may play a role in inhibiting expression of adhesion molecules by increasing eNOS activities.
Phase-separation and -segregation (boiling/distillation of subseafloor hydrothermal fluids) represent the primary mechanisms causing intra-field variations in vent fluid compositions. To determine whether this geochemical process affects the formation of microbial communities, we examined the microbial communities at three different vent sites located within a few tens meters of one another. In addition to chimney structures, colonization devices capturing subseafloor communities entrained by the vent fluids were studied, using culture-dependent and -independent methods. Microbiological analyses demonstrated the occurrence of distinctive microbial communities in each of the hydrothermal niches. Within a chimney structure, there was a transition from a mixed community of mesophiles and thermophiles in the exterior parts to thermophiles in the interior. Beside the transition within a chimney structure, intra-field variations in microbial communities in vent fluids were apparent. Geochemical analysis demonstrated that different vent fluids have distinctive end-member compositions as a consequence of subseafloor phase-separation and -segregation, which were designated gas-depleted, normal and gas-enriched fluids. In comparison to gas-depleted and normal fluids, gas-enriched fluids harbored more abundant chemolithoautotrophs with gaseous component-dependent energy metabolism, such as hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. Subseafloor phase-separation and -segregation may play a key role in supplying energy and carbon sources to vent-associated chemolithoautotrophs and subvent microbial communities.
Synthetic biology is a powerful experimental approach, not only for developing new biotechnology applications, but also for testing hypotheses in basic biological science. Here, examples from our research using the best model system, Escherichia coli, are reviewed. New evidence drawn from synthetic biology has overturned several long-standing hypotheses regarding the mechanisms of transcription and translation: (i) all native aminoacyl-tRNAs are not equally efficient in translation at equivalent concentrations; (ii) accommodation is not always rate limiting in translation, and may not be for any aminoacyl-tRNA; (iii) proline is the only N-alkyl-amino acid in the genetic code not because of special suitability for protein structure, but because of its comparatively high nucleophilicity; (iv) the usages of most sense codons in E. coli do not correlate with cognate tRNA abundances and (v) class II transcriptional pausing and termination by T7 RNA polymerase cannot be assumed to occur in vivo based on in vitro data. Implications of these conclusions for the biotechnology field are discussed.
Heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) is one of a number of actin-binding proteins that regulate actin polymerization. Three related HSP27 sequences had previously been mapped to chromosomes 3, 9, and X. We have used fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH) to correct and refine the map position of the transcribed HSP27 gene (locus HSPB1) to chromosome 7q11.23. This band also contains the site of the deletion associated with Williams syndrome (WS). To define the relationship between HSP27 and the WS deletion, we used two-color FISH on previously G-banded and photographed metaphase chromosomes from WS cell-lines and peripheral blood. Six WS patients with longer deletions that extend telomeric to the classical WS deletion region were analyzed for deletion length using HSP27, cosmids generated from P193O22 (cos11) and B350L10 (cos64 and 82), B350L10, B161A02, and B363M4. The BAC 363M4 was selected from the Washington University database and contains HSP27. Our results indicated that HSP27 was deleted in three patients and that HSP27 is telomeric to cos11, cos64, cos82, and B350L10. B363M4 was demonstrated to overlap the telomeric end of B161A02 and HSP27 may be contained partially within the telomeric end of B161A02. The possible role of HSP27 in the cognitive features of WS is discussed.
The interactions of phenyldithioesters with gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) have been studied by monitoring changes in the surface plasmon resonance (SPR), depolarised light scattering, and surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). Changes in the SPR indicated that an AuNP-phenyldithioester charge transfer complex forms in equilibrium with free AuNPs and phenyldithioester. Analysis of the Langmuir binding isotherms indicated that the equilibrium adsorption constant, K(ads), was 2.3 +/- 0.1 x 10(6) M(-1), which corresponded to a free energy of adsorption of 36 +/- 1 kJ mol(-1). These values are comparable to those reported for interactions of aryl thiols with gold and are of a similar order of magnitude to moderate hydrogen bonding interactions. This has significant implications in the application of phenyldithioesters for the functionalization of AuNPs. The SERS results indicated that the phenyldithioesters interact with AuNPs through the C=S bond, and the molecules do not disassociate upon adsorption to the AuNPs. The SERS spectra are dominated by the portions of the molecule that dominate the charge transfer complex with the AuNPs. The significance of this in relation to the use of phenyldithioesters for molecular barcoding of nanoparticle assemblies is discussed.
The acquired demyelinating neuropathies can be divided into those with an acute onset and course and those with a more chronic course. The acute neuropathies present as Guillain-Barre syndrome and include acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (AIDP), Miller Fisher syndrome, acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN), acute motor and sensory axonal neuropathy (AMSAN), and acute pandysautonomia. The chronic neuropathies are collectively known as chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) and include MADSAM (multifocal acquired demyelinating sensory and motor neuropathy, also know as Lewis-Sumner syndrome) and DADS (distal acquired demyelinating symmetric neuropathy) as variants. The clinical features, pathology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, and prognosis of these neuropathies are discussed.
Owing to its external position in the embryo, the chick eye has been used as a readily accessible model for studying the molecular mechanisms behind the patterning of the central nervous system. Although methods of genetic analysis have not been established as in the mouse, the chick is convenient for analyzing the functions of genes by in ovo electroporation of retroviral vectors. In this review, we describe the retroviral vector-mediated transfer of genes into the chick optic vesicle by in ovo electroporation. A rapid, efficient, and sustained expression of transgenes is achieved by this approach.
We report autopsy cases of two brothers with the late infantile form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (LINCL) and examine apoptotic cell death in autopsied brains. Both patients showed psychomotor developmental delay, cerebellar ataxia, convulsions, visual disturbance and myoclonus, and they became bedridden around the age of 6-7 years. Macular changes, mimicking cherry-red spots, were observed on funduscopy, but conjunctival biopsy failed to disclose storage materials. In these cases, the autopsies demonstrated severe atrophy with neuronal loss and gliosis throughout the brain and spinal cord, except the hypothalamic neurons and motor neurons in the brain-stem and spinal cord, and autofluorescent lipofuscin-like materials of two types, fine granular deposits and coarse round bodies, were stored in the remaining neurons and glial cells, and in the epithelial cells of various visceral organs. Immunostaining for mitochondrial subunit C visualized the fine granular deposits but not the coarse round bodies. The nuclei of neurons and glia cells were stained by in situ nick end labeling, which was more pronounced in the younger case, although the expression of both bcl-2 and bcl-x was not significantly altered in these cases. It is suggested that immunohistochemistry for subunit C may be useful for diagnosis of NCL, and further investigations are necessary to clarify the relationship between LINCL and apoptosis, especially in severely affected cases.
Although important, viscoelastic behavior of the ankle's lateral side has rarely been studied. The present study assesses the viscoelastic behavior during cyclic inversions. Eighteen recreationally active healthy males underwent 40 passive cyclic inversions using a Biodex dynamometer at 5 degrees /s through 80% of maximum range of motion. Energy absorption and restitution and dissipation coefficient were calculated for each repetition. Changes in the mean of the dependent variables for repetitions 1 (R1 ), R5 , R10 , R15 , R20 , R25 , R30 , R35 and R40 were compared by three one-way analyses of variance with repeated measures. There was a significant difference between the means of energy absorption for the selected repetitions from R1 to R20 (P < 0.01), but there was no significant difference between them from R20 to R40 (P > 0.05). There was no significant difference between the means of energy restitution for the selected repetitions (P > 0.05). Whereas there was no significant difference consecutively between the means of dissipative coefficient for the selected repetitions (P > 0.05), there was a significant difference between the means of R30 or R40 relative to the baseline (P < 0.005). The decrease in the energy absorbed and the dissipation coefficient following repeated inversions may be due to the slippage of collagen fibers. The decrease in the shock absorbing ability of the tissues may expose them to injury.
Orsay virus and Santeuil virus, the first known viruses capable of naturally infecting the nematodes Caenorhabditis elegans and Caenorhabditis briggsae, respectively, were recently identified by high-throughput sequencing of wild Caenorhabditis strains. By similar analysis of another wild C. briggsae isolate, we have now discovered and sequenced the complete genome of a third novel virus, Le Blanc virus, that is distantly related to Orsay and Santeuil viruses. All three viruses are positive-sense RNA viruses with bipartite genomes that are most closely related to nodaviruses. Identification of a third virus capable of infecting Caenorhabditis nematodes enables comparative analysis of this clade of viruses and strengthens this model for investigating virus-host interactions.
Dehydrins are intrinsically disordered (unstructured) proteins that are expressed in plants experiencing stressful conditions such as drought or low temperature. Dehydrins are typically found in the cytosol and nucleus, but also associate with chloroplasts, mitochondria, and the plasma membrane. Although their role is not completely understood, it has been suggested that they stabilize proteins or membrane structures during environmental stress, the latter association mediated by formation of amphipathic &alpha;-helices by conserved regions called the K-segments. Thellungiella salsuginea is a crucifer that thrives in the Canadian sub-Arctic (Yukon Territory) where it grows on saline-rich soils and experiences periods of both extreme cold and drought. We have cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli two dehydrins from this plant, denoted TsDHN-1 (acidic) and TsDHN-2 (basic). Here, we show using transmission-Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy that ordered secondary structure is induced and stabilized in these proteins by association with large unilamellar vesicles emulating the lipid compositions of plant plasma and organellar membranes. Moreover, this induced folding is enhanced at low temperatures, lending credence to the hypothesis that dehydrins stabilize plant outer and organellar membranes in conditions of cold.
BACKGROUND: Diesel exhaust has been considered to be a probable lung carcinogen based on studies of occupationally exposed workers. Efforts to define lung cancer risk in these studies have been limited in part by lack of quantitative exposure estimates. OBJECTIVE: We conducted a retrospective cohort study to assess lung cancer mortality risk among U.S. trucking industry workers. Elemental carbon (EC) was used as a surrogate of exposure to engine exhaust from diesel vehicles, traffic, and loading dock operations. METHODS: Work records were available for 31,135 male workers employed in the unionized U.S. trucking industry in 1985. A statistical model based on a national exposure assessment was used to estimate historical work-related exposures to EC. Lung cancer mortality was ascertained through the year 2000, and associations with cumulative and average EC were estimated using proportional hazards models. RESULTS: Duration of employment was inversely associated with lung cancer risk consistent with a healthy worker survivor effect and a cohort composed of prevalent hires. After adjusting for employment duration, we noted a suggestion of a linear exposure-response relationship. For each 1,000-microg/m(3) months of cumulative EC, based on a 5-year exposure lag, the hazard ratio (HR) was 1.07 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.99, 1.15] with a similar association for a 10-year exposure lag [HR = 1.09 (95% CI: 0.99, 1.20)]. Average exposure was not associated with relative risk. CONCLUSIONS: Lung cancer mortality in trucking industry workers increased in association with cumulative exposure to EC after adjusting for negative confounding by employment duration.
Individuals with two red hair colour (RHC)-MC1R genetic variants have light skin and blond/reddish hair and, in comparison with those without such alleles, are at an increased risk of developing melanoma. Our study investigated the association of RHC variants and the Total Dermo-scopy Score (TDS), and the items that make up the TDS, in those with atypical naevi and melanomas from high risk melanoma patients. Eight hundred and seventy-six atypical naevi and 21 melanomas were scored according to the TDS system and MC1R polymorphisms were determined. Analyses revealed that several TDS items including pigment network, dark-brown colour and streaks were more frequently observed in atypical naevi from individuals without RHC variants, while structureless areas were more often observed in individuals with two RHC variants. Finally, no significant difference in TDS was detected in atypical naevi from individuals with two RHC variants compared to those without RHC. Clinicians should be aware of a different dermoscopic naevus pheno-type in patients with light blond or RHC MC1R variants.
Contaminated eukaryotic cell cultures are frequently responsible for unreliable results. Regulatory entities request that cell cultures must be mycoplasma-free. Mycoplasma contamination remains a significant problem for cell cultures and may have an impact on biological analysis since they affect many cell parameters. The gold standard microbiological assay for mycoplasma detection involves laborious and time-consuming protocols. PCR-based and Bioluminescent assays have been considered for routine cell culture screening in research laboratories since they are fast, easy and sensitive. Thus, the aim of this work is to compare the performance of two popular commercial assays, PCR-based and Bioluminescent assays, by assessing the level of mycoplasma contamination in cell cultures from Rio de Janeiro Cell Bank (RJCB) and also from customers' laboratories. The results obtained by both performed assays were confirmed by scanning electron microscopy. In addition, we evaluated the limit of detection of the PCR kit under our laboratory conditions and the storage effects on mycoplasma detection in frozen cell culture supernatants. The performance of both assays for mycoplasma detection was not significantly different and they showed very good agreement. The Bioluminescent assay for mycoplasma detection was slightly more dependable than PCR-based due to the lack of inconclusive results produced by the first technique, especially considering the ability to detect mycoplasma contamination in frozen cell culture supernatants. However, cell lines should be precultured for four days or more without antibiotics to obtain safe results. On the other hand, a false negative result was obtained by using this biochemical approach. The implementation of fast and reliable mycoplasma testing methods is an important technical and regulatory issue and PCR-based and Bioluminescent assays may be good candidates. However, validation studies are needed.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the effects of canagliflozin, a sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor that lowers blood glucose by increasing urinary glucose excretion (UGE), on asymptomatic bacteriuria and urinary tract infections (UTIs). RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, dose-ranging phase 2 study, subjects with type 2 diabetes with inadequate glycemic control while receiving metformin were enrolled and randomized to one of seven arms - placebo; canagliflozin doses 50 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg daily, or 300 mg twice daily; and sitagliptin 100 mg daily - for 12 weeks. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study is registered under Clinicaltrials.gov identification number NCT00642278. RESULTS: Canagliflozin increased renal glucose excretion by 35.4-61.6 mg/mg creatinine in the five dose groups. In the placebo group renal glucose excretion was increased by 1.9 mg/mg creatinine, and in the sitagliptin group it decreased by 1.9 mg/mg creatinine. Asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) were present in 6.4% of canagliflozin and 6.5% of placebo/sitagliptin (control) subjects at randomization and, at 12 weeks, in 7.7% and 6.3% of subjects, respectively (odds ratio [OR] 1.23; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.45-3.89). For subjects with initially negative urine cultures at baseline, 3 out of 82 (3.7%) who received controls and 10 out of 207 (4.8%) who received canagliflozin developed bacteriuria (p = 0.76) at week 12. There were 21 adverse event (AE) reports of UTI; 16 (5.0%) in canagliflozin subjects and 5 (3.8%) in control subjects (OR 1.31; 95% CI, 0.45-4.68). CONCLUSIONS: In this trial, when compared with control subjects, canagliflozin increased UGE but was not associated with increased bacteriuria or AE reports of UTI. However, further studies enrolling larger numbers of subjects with longer term exposure to canagliflozin will be necessary to more fully understand the impact of this agent on the risk of developing UTI.
Polyploidy is common in higher eukaryotes, especially in plants, but it is generally assumed that most prokaryotes contain a single copy of a circular chromosome and are therefore monoploid. We have used two independent methods to determine the genome copy number in halophilic archaea, 1) cell lysis in agarose blocks and Southern blot analysis, and 2) Real-Time quantitative PCR. Fast growing H. salinarum cells contain on average about 25 copies of the chromosome in exponential phase, and their ploidy is downregulated to 15 copies in early stationary phase. The chromosome copy number is identical in cultures with a twofold lower growth rate, in contrast to the results reported for several other prokaryotic species. Of three additional replicons of H. salinarum, two have a low copy number that is not growth-phase regulated, while one replicon even shows a higher degree of growth phase-dependent regulation than the main replicon. The genome copy number of H. volcanii is similarly high during exponential phase (on average 18 copies/cell), and it is also downregulated (to 10 copies) as the cells enter stationary phase. The variation of genome copy numbers in the population was addressed by fluorescence microscopy and by FACS analysis. These methods allowed us to verify the growth phase-dependent regulation of ploidy in H. salinarum, and they revealed that there is a wide variation in genome copy numbers in individual cells that is much larger in exponential than in stationary phase. Our results indicate that polyploidy might be more widespread in archaea (or even prokaryotes in general) than previously assumed. Moreover, the presence of so many genome copies in a prokaryote raises questions about the evolutionary significance of this strategy.
OBJECTIVE: In mammalian cardiomyocytes, alpha isoforms of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase have specific localisation and function, but their role in endocardial endothelium is unknown. METHODS: Different alpha isoforms in endocardial endothelium and cardiomyocytes of rabbit were investigated by measuring contractile parameters of papillary muscles, by RT-PCR, by Western blots and by immunocytochemistry. RESULTS: Inhibition of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase by decreasing external K(+) from 5.0 to 0.5 mmol/l caused biphasic inotropic effects. The maximal negative inotropic effect at external K(+) of 2.5 mmol/l was significantly larger in +EE muscles (with intact endocardial endothelium) than in -EE muscles (with endocardial endothelium removed) (-22.5+/-2.4% versus -5.9+/-4.0%, n=7, P<0.05). Further decrease of K(+) to 0.5 mmol/l caused endothelium-independent positive inotropy (27.8+/-11.8% for +EE versus 18.6+/-11.3% for -EE, n=7, P>0.05). Inhibition of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase either by dihydro-ouabain (10(-9) to 10(-4) mol/l, n=4) or by K(+) decrease following inhibition of Na(+)-H(+) exchanger by dimethyl-amiloride (50 micromol/l, n=6) caused endothelium-independent positive inotropic effects only. RT-PCR and Western Blot demonstrated alpha(1) and alpha(2) Na-K-ATPase isoforms in cardiomyocytes, but only alpha(1) in cultured endocardial endothelial cells. Immunohistochemistry showed that alpha(1) in endocardial endothelium was predominantly present at the luminal side of the cell (n=7) and that alpha(1) and alpha(2) displayed different localisation in cardiomyocytes. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that negative and positive inotropic effects of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase inhibition in +EE muscles could be attributed to inhibition of endocardial endothelial alpha(1) and muscle alpha(2) isoform, respectively. Accordingly, the endocardial endothelial alpha(1) isoform of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase may contribute to blood-heart barrier properties of this endothelium and may control cardiac performance via endothelial Na(+)/H(+) exchange.
The Arp2/3 complex is a powerful nucleator of actin filaments when activated. A recent study has now revealed that this complex is not only subject to positive control but that there also exists a brake on its activity. This brake can suppress both the basal activity of the Arp2/3 complex as well as its activation by nucleation-promoting factors.
An intronless gene encoding a putative G protein-coupled receptor was isolated from the genomic library of barnacle Balanus amphitrite Darwin, with probes obtained from degenerate polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers used to amplify putative transmembrane regions. The cloned genome DNA specifies an open reading frame of 1431 bp encoding 476 amino acids with seven hydrophobic transmembrane (TM)-spanning regions. The predicted protein contains potential asparagine-linked glycosylation and serine/threonine phosphorylation sites in the N-terminal and intracellular loops, respectively. Moreover, the protein has a consensus G protein-binding motif (Ala-Ile-Ser-Leu-Asp-Arg-Tyr-Leu-Ala) in TM domain III. This receptor is most closely related to human alpha 2-adrenergic receptor with 36.9% identity in 409 amino acids overlap. It is also homologous to human serotonin1A (5HT), snail pond 5HT and mouse D2-dopamine receptors with 33-36% identities. Within TM regions among these biogenic amine receptors, the cloned receptor shows considerable amino acid homology with more than 40% overall identities.
We have isolated and characterized Tn3HoHo1- and Tn5-induced mutants of a cosmid clone, pYDH208, which encodes the mannopine (MOP) cyclase-associated catabolism of MOP and agropine (AGR). Characterization of the transposon-induced lacZ fusion mutants by beta-galactosidase activity and mannityl opine utilization patterns identified at least 6 genetic units associated with the catabolism of these opines. Functions for the catabolism of MOP and mannopinic acid are encoded by a 16.4-kb region, whereas those for AGR are encoded by a 9.4-kb region located within the MOP catabolic locus. The induction pattern of catabolism shown by transposon insertion derivatives suggests that the catabolism of MOP, AGR, and mannopinic acid encoded by pYDH208 is regulated by at least two independent control elements. Kinetic uptake assays indicate that the clone encodes two transport systems for MOP and AGR, one constitutive and slow and the other inducible and rapid. Analysis of beta-galactosidase activities from lacZ reporter gene fusions indicated that expression of mannityl opine catabolic genes is not strongly repressed by sugars but is repressed by succinate when ammonium is the nitrogen source. The repression exerted by succinate was relieved when MOP was supplied as the sole source of nitrogen. This suggests that genes for opine catabolism encoded by pYDH208 are regulated, in part, by nitrogen availability.
BACKGROUND: Longevity is greater for identical twins than for fraternal twins from the same population. Factors that are explanatory for this difference are not known. METHODS: Multivariate survival analysis is applied to current mortality data for 26,974 male twins with known zygosities of the National Academy of Science-National Research Council World War II Veteran Twins Registry, and this analysis is applied to their health and social behavior and personal histories, as collected from two survey questionnaires distributed in 1967 and 1983 (with 14,300 and 9475 responses received, respectively). To explain this difference in longevity, social, health, and personal history factors are evaluated for associations with longevity. RESULTS: Survival functions of identical and fraternal twins differed significantly (p<.0001). Median lifetimes were 82 years for identical and 80.5 years for fraternal twins. The correlation between lifetimes of identical twin partners was greater than that of fraternal twins. For identical but not for fraternal twins, the risk of mortality was significantly lower for twin partners who communicated 1 or more times per month, compared with those who communicated less frequently (relative risk.80, 95% confidence interval 0.68-0.94, p=.008, with control for other factors associated with longevity: smoking, exercise, a current marriage, living with both parents until age 15 or older, and having a live co-twin). Distributions of communication, exercise level, and smoking prevalence were more beneficial with regard to longevity for identical than for fraternal twins as a group. CONCLUSIONS: Frequent communication between identical but not fraternal twin partners, and both level of exercise and prevalence of smoking, distributed more beneficially in terms of longevity for identical compared with fraternal twins, are explanatory for the greater longevity of identical than fraternal twins.
RNA helicases are ubiquitous enzymes that participate in almost all aspects of RNA processing, including RNA and RNA-protein complex remodelling. In trypanosomatids, which post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression, the formation of different kinds of ribonucleoprotein granules under stress conditions modulates the parasite's RNA metabolism. This paper describes the isolation of a putative DEVH-box RNA helicase produced by promastigotes of Leishmania braziliensis. Using a Cy3-labelled dT30 oligo, FISH showed the localization of this protein to mRNA granules under starvation stress conditions. The central region of the protein was shown to be responsible for this behaviour.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is the main agent of acute and chronic liver diseases leading to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The current standard therapy has limited efficacy and serious side effects. Thus, the development of alternate therapies is of tremendous importance. HCV NS5A (nonstructural 5A protein) is a pleiotropic protein with key roles in HCV replication and cellular signaling pathways. Here we demonstrate that NS5A dimerization occurs through Domain I (amino acids 1-240). This interaction is not mediated by nucleic acids because benzonase, RNase, and DNase treatments do not prevent NS5A-NS5A interactions. Importantly, DTT abrogates NS5A-NS5A interactions but does not affect NS5A-cyclophilin A interactions. Other reducing agents such as tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine and 2-mercaptoethanol also abrogate NS5A-NS5A interactions, implying that disulfide bridges may play a role in this interaction. Cyclophilin inhibitors, cyclosporine A, and alisporivir and NS5A inhibitor BMS-790052 do not block NS5A dimerization, suggesting that their antiviral effects do not involve the disruption of NS5A-NS5A interactions. Four cysteines, Cys-39, Cys-57, Cys-59, and Cys-80, are critical for dimerization. Interestingly, the four cysteines have been proposed to form a zinc-binding motif. Supporting this notion, NS5A dimerization is greatly facilitated by Zn(2+) but not by Mg(2+) or Mn(2+). Importantly, the four cysteines are vital not only for viral replication but also critical for NS5A binding to RNA, revealing a correlation between NS5A dimerization, RNA binding, and HCV replication. Altogether our data suggest that NS5A-NS5A dimerization and/or multimerization could represent a novel target for the development of HCV therapies.
We further investigated the statistical features of the three classes of Escherichia coli genes that have been previously delineated by factorial correspondence analysis and dynamic clustering methods. A phased Markov model for a nucleotide sequence of each gene class was developed and employed for gene prediction using the GeneMark program. The protein-coding region prediction accuracy was determined for class-specific Markov models of different orders when the programs implementing these models were applied to gene sequences from the same or other classes. It is shown that at least two training sets and two program versions derived for different classes of E. coli genes are necessary in order to achieve a high accuracy of coding region prediction for uncharacterized sequences. Some annotated E. coli genes from Class I and Class III are shown to be spurious, whereas many open reading frames (ORFs) that have not been annotated in GenBank as genes are predicted to encode proteins. The amino acid sequences of the putative products of these ORFs initially did not show similarity to already known proteins. However, conserved regions have been identified in several of them by screening the latest entries in protein sequence databases and applying methods for motif search, while some other of these new genes have been identified in independent experiments.
PURPOSE: The cell surface LDL (low-density lipoprotein) receptor-related protein-1 (LRP-1) is important for lipid transport and several cell signaling processes. Human apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a ligand of LRP-1. We previously reported that a short peptide (apoEdp) mimicking the LRP-1 binding region of apoE prevents hyperglycemia-induced retinal endothelial cell dysfunction in vitro. The in-vivo outcome of apoE-based peptidomimetic inhibition of LRP-1 in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy is unknown. METHODS: Six months after streptozotocin induction of diabetes, male C57Bl/6 mice were intravitreally inoculated with apoEdp in a controlled release formulation. On the 15th day post-apoEdp treatment, mouse retinas were harvested to examine (1) blood-retinal-barrier (BRB) permeability by Evans blue dye, inflammatory leukostasis by concanavalin staining of leukocytes and LRP-1 pathway-related protein expression by Western blot analysis and gelatin zymography. RESULTS: Intravitreal apoEdp treatment of diabetic mice significantly reduced Evans blue extravasation and the number of adherent leukocytes in the diabetic mouse retinas. ApoEdp treatment inhibited the expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) degrading proteases heparanase and MMP-2, and restores the BRB tight junction proteins occludin and ZO-1. ApoEdp treatment also inhibited Wnt/beta-catenin-related expression of pro-inflammatory molecules ICAM-1, HIF-1alpha, and VEGF through negative regulation by LRP-1. CONCLUSION: Intravitreal apoEdp treatment of diabetic mice resulted a significant decrease in retinal vascular abnormalities through downregulation of LRP-1-related ECM protein degradation and Wnt/beta-catenin-related pro-angiogenic molecules.
Modern medical science was born in the post-Renaissance age and began to consolidate towards the middle of the XVII century thanks to physicists, physiologists and biologists, most of whom were direct or indirect pupils of Galileo. The discovery of blood circulation by Harvey is now considered the only progress in physiology at the beginning of the XVII century, comparable to the current advances seen in physical sciences. The history of this exploit could be written from view point of the progressive advance in knowledge. In his experiments, Harvey referred to the authentic not imaginary experiments, and put forward irrefutable quantitative arguments. We can therefore claim that his discovery of blood circulation was the first proper explanation of an organic process and the starting point leading to experimental physiology. So it seems justified to assert that modern medical science did not all rise suddenly, but was gradually structured starting from the middle of the XVII century following the path traced by William Harvey in light of Galileo's thought.
Complementary DNAs encoding mature beta-glucosidase proteins Glu1 and Glu2 of maize were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and cloned into the expression vector pET21a. Both Glu1 and Glu2 isozymes were expressed in high yield ( approximately 3.8% of the total soluble protein and 32% of the total expressed protein) in E. coli. Recombinant enzymes were active on a variety of artificial and natural substrates at levels similar to those of their native counterparts isolated from maize seedlings. Western blot analysis confirmed that both recombinant isozymes were immunoreactive with maize anti-beta-glucosidase sera and their molecular sizes were identical to those of the native maize Glu1 and Glu2 isozymes. Zymogram assays in native gels revealed that recombinant enzymes had the same electrophoretic mobility and substrate specificity as their native counterparts.
Habitat fragmentation represents the single most serious threat to the survival of tropical ecosystems. In formulating strategies to counteract the detrimental effects of fragmentation, knowledge of the levels and patterns of genetic diversity within and between natural populations is vital to the establishment of any conservation programme. We utilized polymorphic chloroplast microsatellite markers to analyse genetic diversity in populations of the endangered tropical tree Caesalpinia echinata Lam. representing the entire extant range of the species. Levels of within-population diversity were low, with only two of seven populations studied displaying any variation. The vast majority of the genetic variation was partitioned between geographical regions (36%) and between populations within regions (55%). These levels of genetic structuring, coupled with a calculated pollen-to-seed flow ratio of approximately 6.7:1, suggest that there has been little gene flow between the three major geographical regions over an extended period. Thus, the current tripartite distribution of the species is more consistent with the existence of separate glacial refugia, rather than reflecting any anthropogenic effects.
1-Beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (Ara-C, Cytarabine) is one of the drugs used for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL). However, the bioavailability of Ara-C is relatively low due to its low lipophilicity. In order to improve the lipophilicity and bioavailability of Ara-C, a series of N(4) derivatives of Ara-C, i.e., (fatty acid)-(amino acid)-Ara-C analogues, were prepared. The 15 derivatives synthesized were characterized by their melting points, optical rotations and partition coefficients. It was found that the Ara-C derivatives synthesized in this study were more lipophilic than Ara-C as determined by their partition coefficients. Their in vitro cytotoxicity and in vivo anti-tumor activity were determined and compared with that of Ara-C. It was found that the derivatives were more active than Ara-C in Hela cells, but not in HL-60 cells. The in vivo results showed that some of the derivatives were more effective than Ara-C in mice bearing S(180) tumor while others showed a decreased activity in comparison with Ara-C.
We prospectively evaluated the hemodynamic performance of the SORIN Freedom SOLO aortic bioprosthesis, a stentless bovine pericardial valve designed for supra-annular implantation. Forty patients (mean age, 71.68 +/- 5.25 yr; 29 men) with severe aortic stenosis underwent aortic valve replacement from January 2008 through August 2009. Patients were evaluated by transthoracic echocardiography and clinical examination, both preoperatively and again at 6 and 24 postoperative months. Peak and mean transvalvular gradients, end-diastolic and end-systolic diameters, interventricular septal and posterior wall thicknesses, indexed volumes of ventricular mass, degrees of aortic regurgitation, and left ventricular ejection fractions were calculated echocardiographically. The valves were implanted with single polypropylene sutures. In the early postoperative period, 1 patient (2.5%) died of multiorgan failure. The mean aortic cross-clamp time was 86.05 +/- 34.2 min. Echocardiographic peak gradients were 84.54 +/- 16.85 mmHg (preoperative), 29.59 +/- 6.27 mmHg (6 mo postoperative), and 24.33 +/- 4.67 mmHg (24 mo postoperative) (P < 0.001); left ventricular mass indices were 176.26 +/- 39.98 g/m(2) (preoperative), 139.21 +/- 30.1 (6 mo postoperative), and 120.51 +/- 23.88 g/m(2) (24 mo postoperative) (P < 0.001). During follow-up, the maximum aortic insufficiency recorded was trace, and no valve dysfunctions were observed. Temporary thrombocytopenia was documented in all patients during early postoperative follow-up (lowest level at day 3); recovery to preoperative levels occurred by day 10. The Freedom SOLO aortic bioprosthesis is an easy-to-implant valve with excellent hemodynamic performance. The thrombocytopenia appears to be a transient laboratory finding.
AIMS: Although recent studies suggest that several antihypertensive drugs could reduce the risk of bone fracture, it is still unclear how these drugs act on bone remodeling, especially in elderly women with severe osteoporosis with disuse syndrome. In the present study, we investigated the effects of a calcium channel blocker (CCB) and an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) on bone metabolism in elderly bedridden women with hypertension and disuse syndrome. METHODS: Elderly bedridden women (aged >75 years) receiving antihypertensive therapy treated with CCB were recruited in the present study. The participants were divided into two groups--CCB group and ARB group--and followed up to 12 months. RESULTS: Markers of bone resorption were markedly increased, suggesting accelerated bone resorption in the participants of the present study. In the follow-up period, the patients treated with a CCB showed a significant decrease in bone mineral density in a time-dependent manner, accompanied by a significant increase in bone resorption markers, whereas treatment with olmesartan inhibited bone loss, associated with attenuation of increased bone resorption markers. Bone mineral density of femoral neck in the CCB group was significantly lower than that in the ARB group at 6 months. CONCLUSION: The present study showed inhibitory effects of an ARB on bone resorption in hypertensive patients with accelerated bone resorption, such as elderly bedridden women, and indicated an important role of the renin-angiotensin system in bone metabolism. In elderly hypertensive patients, ARB might be expected to have additional beneficial potential to maintain bone health in bedridden patients.
Sufficient quantities of human leukocyte interferon have become available for small-scale clinical studies during the past years. The present status of the interferon treatment of respiratory infections, herpes keratitis, hepatitis B, osteogenic sarcoma, and some other tumours is surveyed. The pharmaco-kinetic and toxicological data obtained are summarized. The first clinical experiments with human fibroblast interferon have also been started. The prospects for mass production of human interferons for clinical use are discussed briefly.
Herein we present a novel molecular mechanism of the antitumor effects of live-attenuated measles virus (MV) vaccine in ovarian cancer. Using a 2-DE/MS-based comparative proteomics strategy, we identified 17 proteins differentially expressed in live-attenuated MV vaccine-treated SKOV-3 ovarian cancer cells, including oxidative stress-associated enzymes and cell contact-related proteins, which indicated that live-attenuated MV vaccine could induce aberrant ROS activation. It further mediated epigenetic silencing of E-cadherin via upregulating DNMT3a that conferred both cell-cell and cell-matrix contact loss and apoptosis of ovarian cancer cells. This process could be reversed through ROS inhibition. Our study lays the theoretical foundation for the clinical application of live-attenuated MV vaccine as a potential oncotherapeutic agent for ovarian cancer treatment.
BACKGROUND: More than 100 surgical approaches to treat rectal prolapse have been described. These can be done through the perineum or transabdominally. Delorme's procedure is the most frequently used perineal, resection rectopexy the most commonly used abdominal procedure. Recurrences seem more common after perineal compared to abdominal techniques, but the latter may carry a higher risk of peri- and postoperative morbidity and mortality. METHODS/DESIGN: DeloRes is a randomized, controlled, observer-blinded multicenter trial with two parallel groups. Patients with a full-thickness rectal prolapse (third degree prolapse), considered eligible for both operative methods are included. The primary outcome is time to recurrence of full-thickness rectal prolapse during the 24 months following primary surgery. Secondary endpoints are time to and incidence of recurrence of full-thickness rectal prolapse during the 5-year follow-up, duration of surgery, morbidity, hospital stay, quality of life, constipation, and fecal incontinence. A meta-analysis was done on the basis of the available data on recurrence rates from 17 publications comprising 1,140 patients. Based on the results of a meta-analysis it is assumed that the recurrence rate after 2 years is 20% for Delorme's procedure and 5% for resection rectopexy. Considering a rate of lost to follow-up without recurrence of 30% a total of 130 patients (2 x 65 patients) was calculated as an adequate sample size to assure a power of 80% for the confirmatory analysis. DISCUSSION: The DeloRes Trial will clarify which procedure results in a smaller recurrence rate but also give information on how morbidity and functional results compare. TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trial Number DRKS00000482.
Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) perforate the nuclear envelope and serve as the primary transport gates for molecular exchange between nucleus and cytoplasm. Stripping the megadalton complex down to its most essential organizational elements, one can divide the NPC into scaffold components and the disordered elements attached to them that generate a selective barrier between compartments. These structural elements exhibit flexibility, which may hold a clue in understanding NPC assembly and function. Here we review the current status of NPC research with a focus on the functional implications of its structural and compositional heterogeneity.
BACKGROUND: Chronic binge alcohol (CBA) administration exacerbates skeletal muscle (SKM) wasting at the terminal stage of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in rhesus macaques. This is associated with a pro-inflammatory and oxidative milieu which we have previously shown to be associated with a disrupted balance between anabolic and catabolic mechanisms. In this study, we attempted to characterize the SKM gene expression signature in CBA-administered SIV-infected macaques, using the same animals from the previous study. METHODS: Administration of intragastric alcohol or sucrose to male rhesus macaques began 3 months prior to SIV infection and continued throughout the duration of study. Gene transcriptomes of SKM excised at necropsy (~10 months post-SIV) from healthy na\xEFve control (Control), sucrose-administered, SIV-infected (SUC-SIV), and CBA-administered, SIV-infected (CBA-SIV) macaques were evaluated in microarray data sets. The Protein Analysis Through Evolutionary Relationships classification tool was used to filter differentially regulated genes based on their predicted function into select biological processes relevant to SKM wasting which were inflammation, extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, and metabolism. RESULTS: In total, 1,124 genes were differentially regulated between SUC-SIV and Controls, 2,022 genes were differentially expressed between the CBA-SIV and Controls, and 836 genes were differentially expressed between CBA-SIV and SUC-SIV animals. The relevance of altered gene expression was reflected in the up-regulation of pro-inflammatory CCL-2, CCL-8, CX3CL1, SELE, HP, and TNFRS10A mRNA expression. In addition, ECM remodeling was reflected in the up-regulation of TIMP-1, MMP 2, and MMP 9 mRNA expression and transforming growth factor-beta 1 protein expression. In addition, hydroxyproline content and picrosirius staining reflected increased collagen deposition in the CBA-SIV muscle tissue. CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study demonstrate SKM inflammation as an important underlying mechanism for muscle wasting. In addition, the study provides evidence of SKM fibrotic transformation as a factor in CBA-induced accentuation of SIV-associated muscle wasting.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically assess efficacy and safety of buprenorphine patch versus fentanyl patch in patients with chronic moderate to severe pain. METHODS: Fifteen databases were searched up to December 2010. Randomised and quasi-randomised trials assessing the efficacy in patients with chronic pain were included. Quantitative methods for data synthesis were used and two network meta-analyses were conducted. RESULTS: Fourteen unique trials (17 publications) were included. No head-to-head randomised trials of buprenorphine patch compared with fentanyl patch were identified. Therefore, less robust evidence from indirect comparisons was used. Results from a network meta-analysis of non-enriched designs (eight trials), using trials versus placebo and trials versus morphine for indirect comparisons, indicated that transdermal fentanyl, in comparison with transdermal buprenorphine, showed significantly more nausea (odds ratio [OR] 4.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.07 to 20.39), a significantly higher number of treatment discontinuations due to adverse events (OR 5.94, 95% CI 1.78 to 19.87), and non-significant differences on all other outcomes, including pain measures. In comparison with morphine, transdermal buprenorphine had a significantly higher decrease of pain intensity (MD [mean difference] -16.20, 95% CI -28.92 to -3.48) while morphine caused more cases of constipation (OR 7.50, 95% CI 1.45 to 38.85) and a significantly higher number of treatment discontinuations due to adverse events (OR 5.80, 95% CI 1.68 to 20.11). All other outcomes showed non-significant differences between transdermal buprenorphine and morphine. The results were similar when also including six trials using enriched designs with the exception of more cases of vomiting for fentanyl (OR 17.32, 95% CI 4.43 to 67.71) and morphine (OR 15.85, 95% CI 3.92 to 64.13) compared to buprenorphine. CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate comparability of transdermal buprenorphine and transdermal fentanyl for pain measures with significantly fewer adverse events (nausea and treatment discontinuation due to adverse events) caused by transdermal buprenorphine.
The background and development of the second National AWHONN Research Utilization Project on Second Stage Labor Management that was conducted in multiple sites within the United States and Canada are presented. On the basis of the results of the project, recommendations for designing other research utilization projects are discussed.
We amplified the 16S-23S rRNA intergenic spacer region of Acholeplasma laidlawii PG8 by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and obtained two specific PCR products in different sizes. We have sequenced both PCR products and found that one of them has sequence homologous to the spacer tRNA genes in Bacillus subtilis. This is the first evidence of tRNA genes between the 16S-23S rRNA intergenic spacer regions in members of the class Mollicutes.
The histidine kinase/response regulator system EnvZ/OmpR of Escherichia coli regulates transcription of the genes ompF and ompC, encoding two porins of the outer membrane. Although the total amount of OmpF and OmpC remains constant, the relative levels of the two proteins fluctuate in a reciprocal manner depending on medium osmolality. The membrane-anchored sensor EnvZ somehow monitors changes in environmental osmolality. To characterize the nature of the stimulus perceived by EnvZ, this protein was overproduced, purified, and reconstituted into proteoliposomes. Autokinase activity of purified and reconstituted EnvZ was stimulated by an increase of the K(+) concentration. Rb(+), Na(+), and NH4(+) also stimulated the activity but to a smaller extent, whereas an osmotic upshift imposed by various sugars or increasing concentrations of glycine betaine, proline, or Tris/MES were without influence. Neither the transfer of the phosphoryl group from EnvZ approximately P to OmpR nor the EnvZ-mediated OmpR approximately P dephosphorylation were affected by one of the tested solutes. Experiments with the reconstructed signal transduction cascade including DNA fragments demonstrated a substantial increase of the amount of phosphorylated OmpR in the presence of K(+) and to a lower extent in the presence of Na(+), Rb(+), and NH4(+). Various K(+) salts were tested indicating that the determined effects were K(+)-specific and not dependent on the anion. In a further in vitro test system, which utilizes right-side-out membrane vesicles, the K(+)-specific activation of EnvZ autokinase from the luminal side was confirmed. These results clearly indicate a regulation of EnvZ autokinase activity by monovalent ions, specifically K(+). Whether K(+) accumulation, which is one of the first responses of E. coli after an osmotic upshift, is related to the stimulation of the EnvZ autokinase activity in vivo is discussed.
The primary element involved in the practical delivery of hereditary cancer risk counseling is the development of a cancer genetics service. This service should involve a multidisciplinary core of specialists, aim to identify at-risk individuals and their families, and provide comprehensive genetic counseling with the option of genetic testing. This article examines the development of a cancer genetics service beginning with the fundamentals of patient ascertainment, location, staffing, and billing. It also reviews the elements involved in the provision of genetic counseling services, including formalized risk assessment and risk communication. Finally, we review novel modes of delivery of genetic counseling including the use of telephone counseling and telemedicine as a means of expanding the scope of this service and extending its reach to individuals who might otherwise not have access to a risk assessment clinic. Overall, this presentation can serve as a resource for identifying the practical aspects involved in the delivery of hereditary cancer risk counseling and their subsequent integration into the workings of a proficient cancer genetics service able to identify and serve at-risk patients and their family members.
Young primates have relatively large hands and feet for their body size, perhaps enhancing grasping ability. We test the hypothesis that selection for improved grasping ability is responsible for these scaling trends by examining the ontogeny of intrinsic hand and foot proportions in capuchin monkeys (Cebus albifrons and Sapajus apella). If selection for improved grasping ability is responsible for the observed patterns of hand and foot growth in primates, we predicted that fingers and toes would be longer early in life and proportionally decline with age. We measured the lengths of manual and pedal metapodials and phalanges in a mixed-longitudinal radiographic sample. Bone lengths were (a) converted into phalangeal indices (summed non-distal phalangeal length/metapodial length) to test for age-related changes in intrinsic proportions and (b) fit to Gompertz models of growth to test for differences in the dynamics of phalangeal versus metapodial growth. Manual and pedal phalangeal indices nearly universally decreased with age in capuchin monkeys. Growth curve analyses revealed that metapodials generally grew at a faster rate, and for a longer duration, than corresponding phalanges. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that primates are under selection for increased grasping ability early in life. Relatively long digits may be functionally adaptive for growing capuchins, permitting a more secure grasp on both caregivers and arboreal supports, as well as facilitating early foraging. Additional studies of primates and other mammals, as well as tests of grasping performance, are required to fully evaluate the adaptive significance of primate hand and foot growth.
In medical imaging analysis and computer vision, there is a growing interest in analyzing various manifold-valued data including 3D rotations, planar shapes, oriented or directed directions, the Grassmann manifold, deformation field, symmetric positive definite (SPD) matrices and medial shape representations (m-rep) of subcortical structures. Particularly, the scientific interests of most population studies focus on establishing the associations between a set of covariates (e.g., diagnostic status, age, and gender) and manifold-valued data for characterizing brain structure and shape differences, thus requiring a regression modeling framework for manifold-valued data. The aim of this paper is to develop an intrinsic regression model for the analysis of manifold-valued data as responses in a Riemannian manifold and their association with a set of covariates, such as age and gender, in Euclidean space. Because manifold-valued data do not form a vector space, directly applying classical multivariate regression may be inadequate in establishing the relationship between manifold-valued data and covariates of interest, such as age and gender, in real applications. Our intrinsic regression model, which is a semiparametric model, uses a link function to map from the Euclidean space of covariates to the Riemannian manifold of manifold data. We develop an estimation procedure to calculate an intrinsic least square estimator and establish its limiting distribution. We develop score statistics to test linear hypotheses on unknown parameters. We apply our methods to the detection of the difference in the morphological changes of the left and right hippocampi between schizophrenia patients and healthy controls using medial shape description.
Bumblebees are commercially reared and transported worldwide mainly for pollination of greenhouse tomatoes. Three honeybee viruses have been reported in bumblebees: Acute bee paralysis virus, Kashmir bee virus and Deformed wing virus. We developed a multiplex RT-PCR with primers designed on highly conserved regions of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase in order to detect a maximum range of viral variants. Rearing facilities and governmental organizations can now thoroughly screen bumblebee colonies with a cost-effective technique with an integrated internal amplification control (IAC) implementable in laboratories that strive for International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certification.
XP-F cDNA was cloned into a mammalian expression vector plasmid, and introduced into group F xeroderma pigmentosum (XP-F) cells. Several cell clones possessing transfected XPF cDNA were randomly isolated, and DNA repair characteristics of a clone, XP-FR2, were extensively analyzed. The XP-FR2 cells expressed high level of XPF protein as well as ERCC1 protein, although their parental XP-F cells expressed extremely low level of both proteins. The XP-FR2 cells showed UV resistance comparable to normal human cells, and had normal levels of UV-induced unscheduled DNA synthesis and normal capability to remove cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers and (6-4) photoproducts. Frequencies and types of UV-induced mutations examined by shuttle vector plasmids in XP-FR2 cells were similar to those in normal human cells. These results demonstrate that excision repair defect in XP-F cells is fully corrected by over-expression of XPF cDNA alone, although only partial correction of the cells by XPF cDNA has been reported before.
STUDY OBJECTIVE: The noninvasive cardiac output monitor and passive leg-raising maneuver has been shown to be reasonably accurate in predicting fluid responsiveness in critically ill patients. We examine whether using a noninvasive protocol would result in more rapid lactate clearance after 3 hours in patients with severe sepsis and septic shock in the emergency department. METHODS: In this open-label randomized controlled trial, 122 adult patients with sepsis and serum lactate concentration of greater than or equal to 3.0 mmol/L were randomized to receive usual care or intravenous fluid bolus administration guided by measurements of change of stroke volume index, using the noninvasive cardiac output monitor after passive leg-raising maneuver. The primary outcome was lactate clearance of more than 20% at 3 hours. Secondary outcomes included mortality, length of hospital and ICU stay, and total hospital cost. Analysis was intention to treat. RESULTS: Similar proportions of patients in the randomized intervention group (70.5%; N=61) versus control group (73.8%; N=61) achieved the primary outcome, with a relative risk of 0.96 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.77 to 1.19). Secondary outcomes were similar in both groups (P>.05 for all comparisons). Hospital mortality occurred in 6 patients (9.8%) each in the intervention and control groups on or before 28 days (relative risk=1.00; 95% CI 0.34 to 2.93). Among a subgroup of patients with underlying fluid overload states, those in the intervention group tended to receive clinically significantly more intravenous fluids at 3 hours (difference=975 mL; 95% CI -450 to 1,725 mL) and attained better lactate clearance (difference=19.7%; 95% CI -34.6% to 60.2%) compared with the control group, with shorter hospital lengths of stay (difference=-4.5 days; 95% CI -9.5 to 2.5 days). CONCLUSION: Protocol-based fluid resuscitation of patients with severe sepsis and septic shock with the noninvasive cardiac output monitor and passive leg-raising maneuver did not result in better outcomes compared with usual care. Future studies to demonstrate the use of the noninvasive protocol-based care in patients with preexisting fluid overload states may be warranted.
Type I interferon (IFN) alpha/beta is critical for host defense. During endotoxicosis or highly lethal bacterial infections where systemic inflammation predominates, mice deficient in IFN-alpha/beta receptor (IFNAR) display decreased systemic inflammation and improved outcome. However, human sepsis mortality often occurs during a prolonged period of immunosuppression and not from exaggerated inflammation. We used a low lethality cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model of sepsis to determine the role of type I IFNs in host defense during sepsis. Despite increased endotoxin resistance, IFNAR(-/-) and chimeric mice lacking IFNAR in hematopoietic cells display increased mortality to CLP. This was not associated with an altered early systemic inflammatory response, except for decreased CXCL10 production. IFNAR(-/-) mice display persistently elevated peritoneal bacterial counts compared with wild-type mice, reduced peritoneal neutrophil recruitment, and recruitment of neutrophils with poor phagocytic function despite normal to enhanced adaptive immune function during sepsis. Importantly, CXCL10 treatment of IFNAR(-/-) mice improves survival and decreases peritoneal bacterial loads, and CXCL10 increases mouse and human neutrophil phagocytosis. Using a low lethality sepsis model, we identify a critical role of type I IFN-dependent CXCL10 in host defense during polymicrobial sepsis by increasing neutrophil recruitment and function.
Transient ischemic attack (TIA) is an important predictor of future ischemic events, including stroke. Due to the typically brief period of neurologic dysfunction, patients often overlook the importance of reporting a TIA. We have recently shown that platelet activation plays an important role in TIA pathology. In a similar vein, smoking is associated with a hypercoagulable state and is also one of the important risk factors for stroke. Here we present an interesting case where a 61-year-old male, with hypercholesterolemia, and a previous heart valve replacement, developed a TIA 5 months after he started smoking. Subsequent to the event, Warfarin dosage was monitored monthly using the international normalized ratio (INR). We compared erythrocyte and platelet morphology of healthy individuals, that of smokers, individuals who had a diagnosed TIA (without smoking), and the patient. The erythrocytes from the case study are ultrastructurally similar to that of a smoker, while his platelets are similar to that of smokers and TIA patients who do not smoke. We conclude that smoking exacerbated the chronic inflammation induced by hypercholesterolemia, causing changes in his erythrocyte morphology and platelet activation, and suggest that ultrastructure here explains the clinical manifestations of the thrombotic state of this patient.
Recently, a somatic point mutation of the B-RAF gene (V600E) has been identified as the most common genetic event in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), with a prevalence variable among different series. Since discordant data on the clinico-pathologic features of B-RAF mutated PTC are present in the literature, the aim of the present co-operative study was to establish the prevalence of this genetic alteration and to perform a genotype-phenotype correlation in a large cohort of patients with PTC. To this purpose, a series of 260 sporadic PTCs with different histological variants were included in the study. The mutational analysis of the B-RAF gene was performed either by RT-PCR followed by single-stranded conformational polymorphism or by PCR and direct sequencing. Statistical analyses were obtained by means of chi2/Fisher's exact test and t-test. Overall, a heterozygous T > A transversion at nucleotide 1799 (V600E) was found in 99 out of 260 PTCs (38%). According to the histological type of the tumor, the B-RAF (V600E) mutation was present in 48.3% of cases of classic PTCs (85 out of 176), in 17.6% (nine out of 51) of follicular variants of PTCs, in 21.7% (five out of 23) in other PTC variants and in none of the ten poorly differentiated tumors. B-RAF (V600E) was significantly associated with the classic variant of PTC (P = 0.0001) and with an older age at diagnosis (P = 0.01). No statistically significant correlation was found among the presence of B-RAF (V600E) and gender, tumor node metastasis (TNM), multicentricity of the tumor, stage at diagnosis and outcome. In conclusion, the present study reports the prevalence of B-RAF (V600E) (38%) in the largest series of sporadic PTCs, including 260 cases from three different Italian referring centers. This prevalence is similar to that calculated by pooling together all data previously reported, 39.6% (759 out of 1914 cases), thus indicating that the prevalence of this genetic event lies around 38-40%. Furthermore, B-RAF (V600E) was confirmed to be associated with the papillary growth pattern, but not with poorer differentiated PTC variants. A significant association of B-RAF mutation was also found with an older age at diagnosis, the mutation being very rare in childhood and adolescent PTCs. Finally, no correlation was found with a poorer prognosis and a worse outcome after a median follow-up of 72 months.
We describe a patient in whom HIV-associated nephropathy developed in association with the detection of Mycoplasma fermentans. This mycoplasma was found in renal tissue by means of a polymerase chain reaction when nephropathy was first evident, and subsequently in urine, blood and the throat. The evidence presented strengthens the causal association of this micro-organism with HIV-induced nephropathy.
OBJECTIVE: Children with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22qDS) often require surgical intervention to treat velopharyngeal dysfunction (VPD). Although some studies have documented improved velopharyngeal (VP) closure under increased speaking effort, currently no studies have examined the effect of similar behavioral speech modifications on VP closure in children with 22qDS. The purpose of this pilot study was to explore the effect of loudness on VP closure during speech in children with 22qDS and persisting VPD. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Four children with 22qDS, posterior pharyngeal flap, and persisting mild VPD underwent pressure-flow testing while repeating words at habitual and increased loudness levels. Using a single-subject A-B design, descriptive statistics and graphical measures were used to examine differences in VP orifice area (VPA) and timing of closure in the habitual versus loud condition. RESULTS: Results were mixed. Median VPA decreased during some stimuli for 3 participants, but increased for 1 subject when speaking louder. Median duration of nasal airflow decreased for 3 participants in the loud condition. CONCLUSION: This study presents preliminary aerodynamic data regarding the plasticity of VP physiology in the 22qDS group. Further research is needed to determine how loudness impacts VP function in children with 22qDS.
Calcium ions, applied internally, externally, or symmetrically, have been used in conjunction with rate-theory modeling to explore the energy profile of the ion-conducting pore of sodium channels. The block, by extracellular and/or intracellular calcium, of sodium ion conduction through single, batrachotoxin-activated sodium channels from rat brain was studied in planar lipid bilayers. Extracellular calcium caused a reduction of inward current that was enhanced by hyperpolarization and a weaker block of outward current. Intracellular calcium reduced both outward and inward sodium current, with the block being weakly dependent on voltage and enhanced by depolarization. These results, together with the dependence of single-channel conductance on sodium concentration, and the effects of symmetrically applied calcium, were described using single- or double-occupancy, three-barrier, two-site (3B2S), or single-occupancy, 4B3S rate-theory models. There appear to be distinct outer and inner regions of the channel, easily accessed by external or internal calcium respectively, separated by a rate-limiting barrier to calcium permeation. Most of the data could be well fit by each of the models. Reducing the ion interaction energies sufficiently to allow a small but significant probability of two-ion occupancy in the 3B2S model yielded better overall fits than for either 3B2S or 4B3S models constrained to single occupancy. The outer ion-binding site of the model may represent a section of the pore in which sodium, calcium, and guanidinium toxins, such as saxitoxin or tetrodotoxin, compete. Under physiological conditions, with millimolar calcium externally, and high potassium internally, the model channels are occupied by calcium or potassium much of the time, causing a significant reduction in single-channel conductance from the value measured with sodium as the only cation species present. Sodium conductance and degree of block by external calcium are reduced by modification of single channels with the carboxyl reagent, trimethyloxonium (TMO) (Worley et al., 1986) Journal of General Physiology. 87:327-349). Elevations of only the outermost parts of the energy profiles for sodium and calcium were sufficient to account for the reductions in conductance and in efficacy of calcium block produced by TMO modification.
Cellular mechanisms involved in general anesthesia are unknown. We report here that sub-anesthetic concentrations of carbon dioxide specifically suppress the temperature-sensitive paralytic phenotype of Drosophila shibire(ts) mutants that have a conditional block in synaptic vesicle recycling. Carbon dioxide not only suppresses the onset of temperature-sensitive paralysis, but also rapidly reverses paralysis induced at the restrictive temperature. This effect of CO2 is most pronounced at about 35% in air, and depends on the absolute concentration of available carbon dioxide rather than on the ratio of oxygen to CO2. Other general anesthetics, halothane, N2 or argon do not suppress the paralytic phenotype of shibire significantly at concentrations we tested. Paralysis of the other temperature sensitive paralytic mutants in our collection is not suppressed by carbon dioxide. These behavioral observations are discussed in the light of possible mechanisms underlying paralysis of shi(ts) flies. We suggest that spontaneous seizures induced in shi(ts) flies held at their restrictive temperatures cause vesicle depletion at critical synapses and consequent behavioral paralysis. The effect of subanesthetic concentrations of CO2 may be to depress spontaneous CNS activity, thus raising the threshold temperature at which synaptic vesicle depletion occurs. In support of this model, we show that the threshold temperature for paralysis is reduced in shi(ts) flies when CNS activity is increased by pharmacological or genetic manipulations, and that subanesthetic concentrations of CO2 aggravate, rather than alleviate, the t.s. paralytic phenotype of hypoactive parats flies defective in axonal voltage-gated sodium channels.
The regulation of a series of cellular events requires specific protein-protein interactions, which are usually mediated by modular domains to precisely select a particular sequence from diverse partners. However, most signaling domains can bind to more than one peptide sequence. How do proteins create promiscuity from precision? Moreover, these complex interactions typically occur at the interface of a well-defined secondary structure, alpha helix and beta sheet. However, the molecular recognition primarily controlled by loop architecture is not fully understood. To gain a deep understanding of binding selectivity and promiscuity by the conformation of loops, we chose the forkhead-associated (FHA) domain as our model system. The domain can bind to diverse peptides via various loops but only interact with sequences containing phosphothreonine (pThr). We applied molecular dynamics (MD) simulations for multiple free and bound FHA domains to study the changes in conformations and dynamics. Generally, FHA domains share a similar folding structure whereby the backbone holds the overall geometry and the variety of sidechain atoms of multiple loops creates a binding surface to target a specific partner. FHA domains determine the specificity of pThr by well-organized binding loops, which are rigid to define a phospho recognition site. The broad range of peptide recognition can be attributed to different arrangements of the loop interaction network. The moderate flexibility of the loop conformation can help access or exclude binding partners. Our work provides insights into molecular recognition in terms of binding specificity and promiscuity and helpful clues for further peptide design.
The presence of a structurally abnormal extra chromosome in a patient with Sturge-Weber syndrome and several members of her family is described. With routine techniques the abnormal chromosome is slightly submetacentric, of the size of a G group chromosome and shows satellites on both arms. C-banding suggested the presence of 2 centromeric regions rather than one, and to explain this finding, in addition to the segregation of the abnormal chromosome through 3 generations and why only one centromere is visible with the usual cytogenetic technique, an hypothesis is advanced suggesting that it resulted from an unusual type of Robertsonian translocation, in which one of the breacks involved directly the centromere of an acrocentric producing a partially dicentric bisate-lited chromosome. The association of Sturge-Weber syndrome with the chromosome abnormality is thought to be fortuitous and the lack of clinical manifestations of all members of this family with the abnormal chromosome, including one with two extra ones, is explained by the fact that it was almost entirely formed by heterochromatic material. The usefulness of C-banding in the study of this patient is strongly emphasized.
GOALS: We have developed the anti-cancer peptide, PNC-27, which is a membrane-active peptide that binds to the HDM-2 protein expressed in the cancer cell membranes of solid tissue tumor cells and induces transmembrane pore formation in cancer, but not in normal cells, resulting in tumor cell necrosis that is independent of p53 activity in these cells. We now extend our study to non-solid tissue tumor cells, in this case, a primitive, possible stem cell human leukemia cell line (K562) that is also p53-homozygously deleted. Our purpose was twofold: to investigate if these cells likewise express HDM-2 in their plasma membranes and to determine if our anti-cancer peptide induces tumor cell necrosis in these non-solid tissue tumor cells in a manner that depends on the interaction between the peptide and membrane-bound HDM-2. PROCEDURES: The anti-cancer activity and mechanism of PNC-27, which carries a p53 aa12-26-leader sequence connected on its carboxyl terminal end to a trans-membrane-penetrating sequence or membrane residency peptide (MRP), was studied against p53-null K562 leukemia cells. Murine leukocytes were used as a non-cancer cell control. Necrosis was determined by measuring the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and apoptosis was determined by the detection of Caspases 3 and 7. Membrane colocalization of PNC-27 with HDM-2 was analyzed microscopically using fluorescently labeled antibodies against HDM-2 and PNC-27 peptides. RESULTS: We found that K562 cells strongly express HDM-2 protein in their membranes and that PNC-27 co-localizes with this protein in the membranes of these cells. PNC-27, but not the negative control peptide PNC-29, is selectively cytotoxic to K562 cells, inducing nearly 100 percent cell killing with LDH release. In contrast, this peptide had no effect on the lymphocyte control cells. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that HDM-2 is expressed in the membranes of non-solid tissue tumor cells in addition to the membranes of solid tissue tumor cells. Since K-562 cells appear to be in the stem cell family, the results suggest that early developing tumor cells also express HDM-2 protein in their membranes. Since PNC-27 induces necrosis of K-562 leukemia cells and co-localizes with HDM-2 in the tumor cell membrane as an early event, we conclude that the association of PNC-27 with HDM-2 in the cancer cell membrane results in trans-membrane pore formation which results in cancer cell death, as previously discovered in a number of different solid tissue tumor cells. Since K562 cells lack p53 expression, these effects of PNC-27 on this leukemia cell line occur by a p53-independent pathway.
Although directed cellular migration facilitates the coordinated movement of cells during development and repair, the mechanisms regulating such migration remain poorly understood. Missing-in-metastasis (MIM) is a defining member of the inverse Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs domain (I-BAR) subfamily of lipid binding, cytoskeletal regulators whose levels are altered in a number of cancers. Here, we provide the first genetic evidence that an I-BAR protein regulates directed cell migration in vivo. Drosophila MIM (dmim) is involved in Drosophila border cell migration, with loss of dmim function resulting in a lack of directional movement by the border cell cluster. In vivo endocytosis assays combined with genetic analyses demonstrate that the dmim product regulates directed cell movement by inhibiting endocytosis and antagonizing the activities of the CD2-associated protein/cortactin complex in these cells. These studies demonstrate that DMIM antagonizes pro-endocytic components to facilitate polarity and localized guidance cue sensing during directional cell migration.
Fruit juices are an important source of bioactive compounds, but techniques used for their processing and subsequent storage may cause alterations in their contents so they do not provide the benefits expected by the consumer. In recent years consumers have increasingly sought so-called "fresh" products (like fresh products), stored in refrigeration. This has led the food industry to develop alternative processing technologies to produce foods with a minimum of nutritional, physicochemical, or organoleptic changes induced by the technologies themselves. Attention has also focused on evaluating the microbiological or toxicological risks that may be involved in applying these processes, and their effect on food safety, in order to obtain safe products that do not present health risks. This concept of minimal processing is currently becoming a reality with conventional technologies (mild pasteurization) and nonthermal technologies, some recently introduced (pasteurization by high hydrostatic pressure) and some perhaps with a more important role in the future (pulsed electric fields). Nevertheless, processing is not the only factor that affects the quality of these products. It is also necessary to consider the conditions for refrigerated storage and to control time and temperature.
SUMMARY: SeqExpress is a stand-alone desktop application for the identification of relevant genes within collections of microarray or SAGE experiments. A number of analysis, filtering and visualization tools are provided to aid in the selection of groups of genes. If R is installed then the application can use this to provide further analysis. AVAILABILITY: SeqExpress is available at: http://www.seqexpress.com
Salicylic acid (SA) biosynthesis, the expression of SA-related genes and the effect of SA on the Arabidopsis-Plasmodiophora brassicae interaction were examined. Biochemical analyses revealed that, in P. brassicae-infected Arabidopsis, the majority of SA is synthesized from chorismate. Real-time monitored expression of a gene for isochorismate synthase was induced on infection. SA can be modified after accumulation, either by methylation, improving its mobility, or by glycosylation, as one possible reaction for inactivation. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) confirmed the induction of an SA methyltransferase gene, whereas SA glucosyltransferase expression was not changed after infection. Col-0 wild-type (wt) did not provide a visible phenotypic resistance response, whereas the Arabidopsis mutant dnd1, which constitutively activates the immune system, showed reduced gall scores. As dnd1 showed control of the pathogen, exogenous SA was applied to Arabidopsis in order to test whether it could suppress clubroot. In wt, sid2 (SA biosynthesis), NahG (SA-deficient) and npr1 (SA signalling-impaired) mutants, SA treatment did not alter the gall score, but positively affected the shoot weight. This suggests that SA alone is not sufficient for Arabidopsis resistance against P. brassicae. Semi-quantitative PCR revealed that wt, cpr1, dnd1 and sid2 showed elevated PR-1 expression on P. brassicae and SA + P. brassicae inoculation at 2 and 3 weeks post-inoculation (wpi), whereas NahG and npr1 showed no expression. This work contributes to the understanding of SA involvement in the Arabidopsis-P. brassicae interaction.
Forty-two different carbon sources were tested for the polyester synthesis of a citronellol-utilizing bacterium, Pseudomonas citronellolis (ATCC 13674). These included linear C(2) to C(10) monocarboxylic acids, C(3) to C(10) dicarboxylic acids, saccharides, alpha,omega-diols, hydrocarbons, and 3-methyl-branched substrates such as 3,7-dimethyl-6-octen-1-ol (citronellol), 3-methyl-n-valerate, 3-methyl-1-butanol, and 3-methyladipate. Isolated polymers were characterized by gas chromatography, infrared spectroscopy, H- or C-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, H-C heteronuclear correlation spectroscopy (H-C COSY), H-H homonuclear COSY, and differential scanning calorimetry. Polyesters from nine monocarboxylic acids and two related carbon sources could be metabolically divided into three groups. The first group of C(2) to C(4) carbon sources resulted in copolyesters composed of 61 to 70 mol% 3-hydroxydecanoate, 23 to 33 mol% 3-hydroxyoctanoate, 3.6 to 9.0 mol% 3-hydroxy-5-cis-dodecenoate, and 1.8 to 2.6 mol% 3-hydroxy-7-cis-tetradecenoate. Carbon sources in group II (C(7) to C(10)) produced copolyesters composed of 3-hydroxyacid monomer units with the same number of carbon atoms as the substrate (major constituent) and monomer units with either two less or two more carbons. Negligible amounts of 3-hydroxy-5-cis-dodecenoate and 3-hydroxy-7-cis-tetradecenoate were detected in copolyesters from this group. Copolyesters from group III (C(5) and C(6)) had a monomer unit distribution that could be said to be between those of groups I and II. In addition, a novel copolyester, poly(3-hydroxy-7-methyl-6-octenoate-co-3-hydroxy-5-methylhexanoate), was synthesized when grown on citronellol. The H-C heteronuclear COSY spectrum for monomer unit II revealed that both methylene and isopropyl groups, proximately connected in series to a single chiral center, had magnetically diastereotopic natures.
CONTEXT: Pancreatic cystic lesions are increasingly recognized and comprise different pathological entities. The management of these lesions is challenging, because of inadequate preoperative histological diagnosis. Among this family of lesions, mature cystic teratomas are an extremely rare finding. CASE REPORT: We present the case of a 61-year-old man with a mature cystic teratoma of the pancreas' uncinate process, incidentally discovered at diagnostic imaging. CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the difficulty to obtain a preoperative diagnosis of this pathological entity and the need of increased awareness about mature cystic teratoma when examining a pancreatic cystic lesion.
The N-terminal BOX-I domain of p53 containing a docking site for the negative regulator MDM2 and the positive effector p300, harbours two recently identified phosphorylation sites at Thr18 or Ser20O whose affect on p300 is undefined. Biochemical assays demonstrate that although MDM2 binding is inhibited by these phosphorylations, p300 binding is strikingly stabilized by Thr18 or Ser20 phosphorylation. Introducing EGFP-BOX-I domain peptides with an aspartate substitution at Thr18 or Ser20 induced a significant inhibition of endogenous p53-dependent transcription in cycling cells, in irradiated cells, as well as in cells transiently co-transfected with p300 and p53. In contrast an EGFP-wild-type BOX-I domain peptide stimulated p53 activity via inhibition of MDM2 protein binding. These results suggest that phosphorylation of p53 at Thr18 or Ser20 can activate p53 by stabilizing the p300-p53 complex and also identify a class of small molecular weight ligands capable of selective discrimination between MDM2- and p300-dependent activities.
Stable single-unit recording in the brain of vertebrates allows to investigate processes underlying neural plasticity. In applied aspect long-term single-unit recording can be useful for development of invasive brain--computer interface. Here we propose a criterion for identification of neurons that were recorded for more than one day. Based only on the spike forms classification yields ambiguous result. Additional parameters (such as form of interspike interval histogram or certain parameters of that histogram) decreased misclassification probability considerably. Using proposed criterion we were able to identify 82 neurons that were recoded for more than one day. In extreme case activity of one neuron was observed for 94 days.
We previously reported the discovery of a simple conjugated cyano pharmacophore which had led to the development of (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)acrylonitrile, as a selective inhibitor of oestrogen receptor positive (ER+ve) human breast cancer cell line, MCF-7. Further exploration though modification of the acrylonitrile and aromatic substituents has highlighted key structural components necessary for broad spectrum cytotoxicity. The acrylic acid derivates (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)acrylic acid and (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(4-methoxyphenyl)acrylic acid (9) were inactive; confirming the importance of the cyanide moiety. The most potent 2-phenylacrylonitriles synthesized were (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)acrylonitrile and (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(1H-indol-5-yl)acrylonitrile (20) with an average GI(50) values of 1.4 and 0.53 muM respectively. Five additional (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(indolyl)acrylonitriles also displayed average GI(50) values of </=8.4 muM. In the case of indole, this represents a 32-fold increase in broad spectrum cytotoxicity relative to the lead.
The performance of high resolution accurate mass spectrometry (HRMS) operating in full scan MS mode was investigated for the quantitative determination of amoxicillin (AMX) as well as qualitative analysis of metabolomic profiles in tissues of medicated chickens. The metabolomic approach was exploited to compile analytical information on changes in the metabolome of muscle, kidney and liver from chickens subjected to a pharmacological program with AMX. Data consisting of m/z features taken throughout the entire chromatogram were extracted and filtered to be treated by Principal Component Analysis. As a result, it was found that medicated and non-treated animals were clearly clustered in distinct groups. Besides, the multivariate analysis revealed some relevant mass features contributing to this separation. In this context, recognizing those potential markers of each chicken class was a priority research for both metabolite identification and, obviously, evaluation of food quality and health effects associated to food consumption.
Membrane proteins are challenging targets for crystallization and structure determination by X-ray crystallography. Hurdles can be overcome by antibody-mediated crystallization. More than 25 unique structures of membrane protein:antibody complexes have already been determined. In the majority of cases, hybridoma-derived antibody fragments either in Fab or Fv fragment format were employed for these complexes. We will briefly introduce the background and current status of the strategy and describe in detail the current protocols of well-established methods for the immunization, the selection, and the characterization of antibodies, as well as the cloning, the production, and the purification of recombinant antibodies useful for structural analysis of membrane proteins.
A strain of Mycobacterium flavescens was isolated from polluted sediments. It was capable of utilizing pyrene as a sole source of carbon and energy. When pyrene was supplied as a suspension at 50 micrograms/ml, the generation time was 9.6 h and the rate of pyrene utilization was 0.56 microgram ml-1 day-1. In addition to pyrene, the strain could mineralize phenanthrene (17.7%) and fluoranthene (17.9%), but failed to mineralize naphthalene, chrysene, anthracene, fluorene, acenaphthene and benzo[a]pyrene, as determined by recovery of radiolabeled CO2 in incubations conducted for 2 weeks under growth conditions. Metabolites produced during growth on pyrene were detected and characterized by HPLC and GC-MS. The product of initial ring oxidation, 4,5-dihydroxy-4,5-dihydropyrene was identified, as well as ring-fission products including 4-phenanthroic acid, phthalic acid, and 4,5-phenanthrenedioic acid.
The aim was to evaluate the angiotensin-I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory potential and the antioxidant capacity of pure synthesized peptides (GLTSK, LSGNK, GEGSGA, MPACGSS and MTEEY) originally identified in the non-digestible fraction (NDF) of common beans (P. vulgaris L.) that had previously demonstrated antiproliferative activity against human colorectal cancer cells. The five peptides were able to inhibit ACE with half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) values ranging from 65.4 (GLTSK) to 191.5 muM (MPACGSS). The combination of GLTSK and MTEEY increased the ACE inhibition by 30% compared to equieffective doses of the single peptides. According to molecular docking analysis, the five peptides had lower estimated free energy values (-6.47 to -9.34 kcal mol(-1)) when they interacted with the catalytic site of ACE than that of the substrate hippuryl-histidyl-leucine (-5.41 kcal mol(-1)), thus inhibiting the enzymatic activity. According to molecular docking analysis, the five peptides interacted with four (His353, Ala354, Glu411 and Tyr523) out of 6 catalytic residues. Moreover, MPACGSS had the highest antioxidant activity according to Ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) (421.58 mumol FeSO4 mg(-1)), Fe(2+) chelation (2.01 mumol Na2EDTA mg(-1)) assays, and also in DPPH (748.39 mumol Trolox per mg of dry peptide) and ABTS (561.42 mumol Trolox mg(-1)) radical scavenging assays. The results support the hypothesis that peptides present in the non-digestible fraction of common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) may exert their physiological benefits independent of their antioxidant capacity, by ACE inhibition through interaction with its catalytic cavity.
Neural circuit mapping is generating datasets of tens of thousands of labeled neurons. New computational tools are needed to search and organize these data. We present NBLAST, a sensitive and rapid algorithm, for measuring pairwise neuronal similarity. NBLAST considers both position and local geometry, decomposing neurons into short segments; matched segments are scored using a probabilistic scoring matrix defined by statistics of matches and non-matches. We validated NBLAST on a published dataset of 16,129 single Drosophila neurons. NBLAST can distinguish neuronal types down to the finest level (single identified neurons) without a priori information. Cluster analysis of extensively studied neuronal classes identified new types and unreported topographical features. Fully automated clustering organized the validation dataset into 1,052 clusters, many of which map onto previously described neuronal types. NBLAST supports additional query types, including searching neurons against transgene expression patterns. Finally, we show that NBLAST is effective with data from other invertebrates and zebrafish. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
Genetic variation in female resistance and tolerance to male mating harassment can affect the outcome of sexually antagonistic mating interactions. We investigated female mating rates and male mating harassment in natural populations of a damselfly (Ischnura elegans). This damselfly species has a heritable sex-limited polymorphism in females, where one of the morphs is a male mimic (androchrome females). The three female morphs differ in mating rates, and these differences are stable across populations and years. However, the degree of premating resistance toward male mating attempts varied across generations and populations. Male mating harassment of the female morphs changed in a density-dependent fashion, suggesting that male mate preferences are plastic and vary with the different morph densities. We quantified morph differences in male mating harassment and female fecundity, using path analysis and structural equation modeling. We found variation between the morphs in the fitness consequences of mating, with the fecundity of one of the nonmimetic morphs declining with increasing male mating harassment. However, androchrome females had lower overall fecundity, presumably reflecting a cost of male mimicry. Density-dependent male mating harassment on the morphs and fecundity costs of male mimicry are thus likely to contribute to the maintenance of this female polymorphism.
In many cells including cardiac myocytes, cytoplasmic Ca is importantly controlled by the plasmalemmal Na-Ca exchanger (3, 8). The tissue diversity and differences in cellular environment raise the question whether the same exchanger is found in all tissues. Recent experiments using rod cells have demonstrated that at least two forms of Na-dependent Ca transport exist. We have examined this issue in various rat and human tissues using the cloned human cardiac Na-Ca exchanger cDNA. Northern blot analysis in these two species show that the major transcript of the Na-Ca exchanger is 7.2 kilobases in heart, brain, kidney, liver, pancreas, skeletal muscle, placenta, and lung. Furthermore, ribonuclease protection analysis in rats shows conservation of the 348-base pair segment tested in heart, brain, kidney, skeletal muscle, and liver. Additionally, Southern blot analysis suggests that a single gene encodes this Na-Ca exchanger. Finally, we show that the clone used to generate our probes encodes a completely functional Na-Ca exchanger. With the use of COS cells and 293 cells transfected with the cloned human cardiac Na-Ca exchanger, we tested the Ca transport properties of the Na-Ca exchanger, the voltage dependence of the Na-Ca exchanger, as well as the Na dependence of the transport function of the Na-Ca exchanger. We conclude that the cardiac form of the Na-Ca exchanger is completely functional when the cDNA is expressed in mammalian cell lines, and, furthermore, this "cardiac" form of the Na-Ca exchanger is naturally expressed in all human and rat tissues tested (but at varying levels).
Treatment of neurodegenerative diseases represents a major challenge for the pharmaceutical industry. Key to developing novel and efficacious therapeutics is the discovery of new druggable targets. Toward this aim, the current drug discovery process is strongly relying on the improved understanding of disease mechanisms and on a synergistic approach with chemistry, molecular biology and robotics. In this scenario, we present the case of a newly discovered molecular mechanism that may be of interest for drug discovery programmes in Huntington's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases.
PURPOSE: Pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) is a serpin with antiangiogenic properties. Previously, the authors showed that PEDF injected into the subconjunctiva reaches the choroid. Here, they examined the effects of PEDF polypeptide fragments on vessel sprouting and on choroidal neovascularization (CNV) after subconjunctival administration. METHODS: Recombinant human PEDF (rhuPEDF) was cleaved at its serpin-exposed loop by limited chymotrypsin proteolysis. Synthetic PEDF peptides 34-mer (Asp(44)-Asn(77)) and 44-mer (Val(78)-Thr(121)) were used. Ex vivo chick aortic vessel sprouting assays were performed. CNV was induced in rats by laser injury of Bruch's membrane. Daily subconjunctival injections (0.01-10 pmol/d protein) were performed for 5 days starting at day of injury or at the seventh day after injury. New vessel volumes were quantified using optical sections of choroid/RPE flat-mounts labeled with isolectin-Ib4. PEDF distribution was evaluated by immunofluorescence of choroid/RPE/retina cross-sections. RESULTS: Full-length rhuPEDF, cleaved rhuPEDF, or peptide 34-mer exhibited ex vivo antiangiogenic activity, but peptide 44-mer was inefficient. PEDF immunostaining around CNV lesions diminished after laser injury. Subconjunctival administration of rhuPEDF or 34-mer at 0.1 pmol/d decreased CNV lesion volumes by 52% and 47%, respectively, whereas those of 44-mer were similar to vehicle injections. Doses of 0.1 and 1 pmol/d rhuPEDF decreased fully developed CNV complex volumes by 45% and 50%, respectively, compared with vehicle injections. CONCLUSIONS: A functional region for the inhibition of vessel sprouting and CNV resides within the 34-mer region of PEDF. Furthermore, subconjunctival administration of optimal range dosages of rhuPEDF or 34-mer can suppress and regress rat CNV lesions, demonstrating that these agents reach the choroid/RPE complex as functionally active molecules.
This article describes the occurrence of numerous calcifications, amyloid deposits, and islands of odontogenic epithelium in the gingiva of 3 siblings with familial gingival fibromatosis. These microscopic features have not been reported previously in patients with this condition.
Quantitative proteomics aims to identify and quantify proteins in cells or organisms that have been obtained from different biological origin (e.g., "healthy vs. diseased"), that have received different treatments, or that have different genetic backgrounds. Protein expression levels can be quantified by labeling proteins with stable isotopes, followed by mass spectrometric analysis. Stable isotopes can be introduced in vitro by reacting proteins or peptides with isotope-coded reagents (e.g., iTRAQ, reductive methylation). A preferred way, however, is the metabolic incorporation of heavy isotopes into cells or organisms by providing the label, in the form of amino acids (such as in SILAC) or salts, in the growth media. The advantage of in vivo labeling is that it does not suffer from side reactions or incomplete labeling that might occur in chemical derivatization. In addition, metabolic labeling occurs at the earliest possible moment in the sample preparation process, thereby minimizing the error in quantitation. Labeling with the heavy stable isotope of nitrogen (i.e., (15)N) provides an efficient way for accurate protein quantitation. Where the application of SILAC is mostly restricted to cell culture, (15)N labeling can be used for micro-organisms as well as a number of higher (multicellular) organisms. The most prominent examples of the latter are Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila (fruit fly), two important model organisms for a range of regulatory processes underlying developmental biology. Here we describe in detail the labeling with (15)N atoms, with a particular focus on fruit flies and C. elegans. We also describe methods for the identification and quantitation of (15)N-labeled proteins by mass spectrometry and bioinformatic analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize the epidemiologic burden and the molecular determinants of group A streptococcal (GAS) meningitis among the pediatric population of the state of Parana, Brazil. METHODS: Clinical and epidemiologic data were gathered by a compulsory notification system during the period 2003 to 2011. Bacterial identification, antibiotic resistance profile, emm-typing, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis typing and virulence profile were analyzed by a central reference laboratory. A review of published pediatric cases of GAS meningitis from the last 45 years was undertaken and compared with the Brazilian series. RESULTS: The incidence of GAS meningitis among the pediatric population was 0.06 cases per 100,000 children per year and was associated with a case fatality rate of 43%. Neonatal age and the presence of an associated toxic shock syndrome were identified as risk factors for death. A distant focus of infection was present in more than half of the patients in the literature and in 36% in the Brazilian case series. A high diversity of emm-types was associated with GAS meningitis in Brazil. No single virulence determinant could be associated with death. CONCLUSIONS: GAS meningitis is associated with high mortality and with a high diversity of GAS emm-types and virulence determinants in Brazil.
The side-effects of pesticides on predatory mites have been investigated at various levels and international teams (e.g., the IOBC/wprs Working Group "Pesticides and beneficial organisms") have selected a few species of predatory mites occurring in Central and Northern Europe as representative for such studies. Key biocontrol species occurring in Southern Europe have received much less attention. Kampimodromus aberrans is the most important predator of herbivorous mites in South-European vineyards treated with selective pesticides. The impact of pesticides on K. aberrans populations has been studied in field conditions whereas few toxicological tests have been conducted in the laboratory because of difficulties in rearing this species. A method for rearing K. aberrans in the laboratory has recently been set up allowing toxicological studies to be conducted. In this paper, a toxicological method to assess the effects of pesticides on K. aberrans is described and the effects of insecticides frequently used in European vineyards on two K. aberrans strains are reported. These strains were collected from vineyards treated with organophosphates. Insecticides characterized by different modes of action were selected for trials. Among these, etofenprox and spinosad were classified as harmful to predatory mites. Chlorpyrifos reduced predatory mite fecundity, and was classified as moderately harmful for both strains. The toxicity of thiamethoxam and flufenoxuron varied with the strain (low to moderate). Indoxacarb and methoxyfenozide appeared to be harmless or slightly harmful. Implications of this study for adopting IPM tactics with a reduced risk for K. aberrans are discussed.
This study was undertaken to determine the influence of Aloe vera (AV) on changes induced in pulmonary tissue of cigarette smoke (CS) inhaling mice. CS inhalation for 4 weeks caused pulmonary damage as evident by histoarchitectural alterations and enhanced serum and tissue lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities. CS inhalation also led to increased mucin production as revealed by mucicarmine and Alcian Blue-Periodic Acid Schiff (AB-PAS) staining. Studies on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (balf) of CS exposed animals revealed structural changes in phospholipids and increase in surface tension when compared with control counterparts. These changes were accompanied by enhanced nitric oxide (NO) levels, citrulline levels, peroxidative damage, and differential modulation of antioxidant defense system. AV administration (seven weeks, 500 mg/kg b.w. daily) to CS inhaling mice led to modulation of CS induced pulmonary changes as revealed by lesser degree of histoarchitectural alterations, lesser mucin production, decreased NO levels, citrulline levels, peroxidative damage, and serum LDH activity. AV treatment to CS inhaling mice was associated with varying response to antioxidant defense system, however balf of CS + AV treated animals did not exhibit appreciable changes when compared with that of CS exposed animals. These observations suggest that AV has the potential to modulate CS induced changes in the pulmonary tissue which could have implications in management of CS associated pulmonary diseases, however, further investigations are required to explore its complete mechanism of action.
The injection of Escherichia coli and Micrococcus luteus into the hemocoel of Aedes aegypti induces a potent antibacterial activity in the hemolymph. We have purified and fully characterized three 40-residue antibacterial peptides from the hemolymph of bacteria-challenged mosquitoes that are absent in naive mosquitoes. The peptides are potently active against Gram-positive bacteria and against one of the Gram-negative bacteria that were tested. The amino acid sequences clearly show that the three peptides are novel isoforms of the insect defensin family of antibacterial peptides. They differ from each other by one or two amino acid residues. We present here the complete amino acid sequences of the three isoforms and the activity spectrum of the predominant Aedes defensin.
Activin has long-range effects in Xenopus development, inducing the mesodermally expressed brachyury gene up to 10 cell diameters from a localised source. Recent experiments show that activin diffuses through tissues to establish a morphogen gradient, and that the long-range effects are a direct result of activin signalling.
BACKGROUND: Long before Alzheimer's disease was established as the leading cause of dementia in old age, cerebrovascular lesions were known to cause cognitive deterioration and associated disability. Since the middle of the last century, different diagnostic concepts for vascular dementia and related syndromes were put forward, yet no widely accepted diagnostic consensus exists to date. DISCUSSION: Several international efforts, reviewed herein, are ongoing to define cognitive impairment due to cerebrovascular disease in its different stages and subtypes. The role of biomarkers is also being discussed, including cerebrospinal fluid proteins, structural and functional brain imaging, and genetic markers. The influence of risk factors, such as diet, exercise and different comorbidities, is emphasised by population-based research, and lifestyle changes are considered for the treatment and prevention of dementia. CONCLUSION: To improve the diagnosis and management of vascular cognitive impairment, further progress has to be made in understanding the relevant pathomechanisms, including shared mechanisms with Alzheimer's disease; bringing together fragmented research initiatives in coordinated international programs; testing if known risk factors are modifiable in prospective interventional studies; and defining the pre-dementia and pre-clinical stages in line with the concept of mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's disease.
A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) method for the qualitative and quantitative analysis of intact human follicle-stimulating hormone (hFSH) was established and validated for accuracy, precision and sensitivity. Human FSH is a dimeric glycoprotein hormone widely used as a diagnostic analyte and as a therapeutic product in reproductive medicine. The technique developed preserves the protein integrity, allowing the analysis of the intact heterodimeric form rather than just of its subunits, as is the case for the majority of the conditions currently employed. This methodology has also been employed for comparing the relative hydrophobicity of pituitary, urinary and two Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-derived hFSH preparations, as well as of two other related glycoprotein hormones of the anterior pituitary: human thyroid-stimulating hormone (hTSH) and human luteinizing hormone (hLH). The least hydrophobic of the three glycohormones analyzed was hFSH, followed by hTSH and hLH. A significant difference (p<0.005) was observed in t(R) between the pituitary and recombinant hFSH preparations, reflecting structural differences in their carbohydrate moieties. Two main isoforms were detected in urinary hFSH, including a form which was significantly different (p<0.005) from the pituitary and recombinant preparations. The linearity of the dose-response curve (r=0.9965, n=15) for this RP-HPLC methodology, as well as an inter-assay precision of less than 4% for the quantification of different hFSH preparations and a sensitivity of the order of 40 ng, were demonstrated. The chromatographic behaviour and relative hydrophobicity of the individual subunits of the pituitary and recombinant preparations were also analyzed. Furthermore, the molecular mass of individual hFSH subunits and of the heterodimer were simultaneously determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectral analysis (MALDI-TOF-MS). The present methodology represents, in our opinion, an essential tool for the characterization and quality control of this hormone, that is not yet described in the main pharmacopoeias.
The effects of oligemia (moderate ischemia) on the brain need to be explored because of the potential role of subtle microvascular changes in vascular cognitive impairment and dementia. Chronic bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAO) in adult rats has been used to study effects of oligemia (hypoperfusion) using neuropathological and neurochemical analysis as well as behavioral tests. In this study, BCCAO was induced for 1 week, or 2, 4, and 6 months. Sensitive immunohistochemistry with marker proteins was used to study reactions of astrocytes (GFAP, nestin), and lectin binding to study microglial cells during BCCAO. Overt neuronal loss was visualized with NeuN antibodies. Astrocytes reacted to changes in the optic tract at all time points, and strong glial reactions also occurred in the target areas of retinal fibers, indicating damage to the retina and optic nerve. Astrocytes indicated a change in the corpus callosum from early to late time points. Diffuse increases in GFAP labeling occurred in parts of the neocortex after 1 week of BCCAO, in the absence of focal changes of neuronal marker proteins. No significant differences emerged in the cortex at longer time points. Nestin labeling was elevated in the optic tract. Reactions of microglia cells were seen in the cortex after 1 week. Measurements of the basilar artery indicated a considerable hypertrophy, indicative of macrovascular compensation in the chronic occlusion model. These results indicate that chronic BCCAO and, by inference, oligemia have a transient effect on the neocortex and a long-lasting effect on white matter structures.
AURKA is a putative low-penetrance tumor susceptibility gene due to its prominent role in cell cycle regulation and centrosomal function. Germline variation in AURKA was evaluated for association with breast cancer and intrinsic breast cancer subtypes in the Carolina Breast Cancer Study (CBCS), a population-based case-control study of African Americans (AA) and Caucasians (Cau). Tag and candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on AURKA were genotyped in 1946 cases and 1747 controls. In race-stratified analyses adjusted for age and African ancestry, odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to evaluate SNP associations with breast cancer. In a race-combined analysis with similar adjustment, these associations were also examined by intrinsic breast cancer subtype. Using dominant models, most AURKA SNPs demonstrated no association with breast cancer in the race-stratified analyses. Among AA, rs6092309 showed an inverse association with breast cancer (OR = 0.69, 95% CI = 0.53-0.90). In the race-combined analyses, rs6099128 had reduced ORs for luminal A (OR = 0.76, 95% CI = 0.60-0.95) and basal-like breast cancer (OR = 0.54, 95% CI = 0.37-0.80). Rs6092309 showed a similar pattern of association with each subtype. Three SNPs (rs6014711, rs911162, rs1047972) had positive associations with basal-like breast cancer, and ORs reduced or close to 1.00 for other subtypes. Our results suggest inverse associations between some AURKA SNPs and overall breast cancer in AA. We found differential associations by specific subtypes and by race. Replication of these findings in larger AA populations would allow more powerful race-stratified subtype analyses.
Echocardiography has become the method of choice in the diagnosis of a congenital heart defect (CHD) in neonates with Down syndrome. The most compelling argument for diagnosis of CHD in the neonatal period is the need for early surgical intervention (ideally prior to 6 months of age) in those with a complete atrioventricular (AV) canal. We evaluated the efficacy of a combined approach of physical examination (PE) and electrocardiography (ECG) in the detection of CHD in 49 neonates with Down syndrome. Our findings indicate that most hemodynamically significant defects (78%), especially a complete AV canal, can be detected by this approach. Hemodynamically insignificant minor defects, such as a small patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and a small atrial septal defect (ASD), may be missed. Thus, echocardiography remains the most sensitive way to diagnose CHD. However, given that the combination of PE and ECG detects the majority of complete AV canal defects, it can be used as an alternative approach when echocardiography is not easily accessible, due to geographic or economic constraints. Follow-up after a few weeks of those with normal PE and ECG findings should enable detection of new symptoms and signs and evolving ECG findings that may have been missed in the immediate newborn period. Patients who are judged by PE and ECG to have CHD will need echocardiographic confirmation.
BACKGROUND: In parallel thorough QT (TQT) studies, it has been speculated that either baseline correction should be omitted, under the assumption that it only adds noise to the data, or a time-averaged baseline instead of a time-matched baseline correction should be considered in order to reduce the study variability. OBJECTIVE: This study characterized the assumptions and implications of different baseline correction approaches in parallel TQT studies submitted for regulatory review. DATA AND METHODS: 57 parallel TQT studies conducted between 2002 and 2009 in 5591 healthy volunteers were evaluated. Only moxifloxacin and placebo arms, including their baselines, were considered. The options of using no baseline correction, time-averaged baseline correction, and time-matched baseline correction were examined and compared. RESULTS: QTc values exhibited a diurnal pattern, with longer QTc intervals during sleep preserved when correcting for a time-averaged baseline. Post-dose and baseline QTc values were highly correlated (mean rho = 0.80, range 0.56-0.98 and mean rho = 0.79, range 0.50-0.96 in the placebo and moxifloxacin groups, respectively). The variability of raw QTc values was substantially larger than that of baseline-adjusted QTc values. The difference in the point estimate of QTc differences between moxifloxacin and placebo differed by up to +/- 4 ms between the time-averaged and the time-matched baseline corrections. Statistical tests indicate that assumptions of time-averaged baseline and no baseline correction are not appropriate. CONCLUSIONS: Baseline correction in parallel TQT studies leads to more precise QTc estimates. Because of possible inaccuracy introduced by time-averaged baseline correction, the time-matched baseline correction appears to be preferable for a parallel TQT study to both reduce the intrinsic variability due to circadian patterns and obtain more accurate point estimates.
BACKGROUND: Green tea is one of the most popular beverages in the world. It is believed to have beneficial effects in the prevention and treatment of many diseases, one of which is type 2 diabetes. The aim of the study is to examine the effect of a decaffeinated green tea extract (GTE) providing a daily dose of 856 mg of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) on obese individuals with type 2 diabetes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The clinical trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial conducted from December 2007 through November 2008. The subjects were randomly assigned to either receive 1,500 mg of a decaffeinated GTE or placebo daily for 16 weeks. Sixty-eight of 80 subjects, ages 20-65 years with BMI > 25 kg/m2 and type 2 diabetes for more than one year, completed this study. Homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) was used as the major outcome measurement. At baseline and after 16 weeks of treatment, anthropometric measurements, fasting glucose, hemoglobin A1C percent (HbA1C), hormone peptides, and plasma lipoproteins were measured from both groups. RESULTS: No statistically significant differences were detected between the decaffeinated GTE and placebo groups in any measured variable. A statistically significant within-group 0.4-percent reduction in HbA1C (from 8.4 to 8.0%) was observed after GTE treatment compared to baseline. Within-group comparison also revealed that the GTE group had significant reductions in waist circumference (WC), HOMA-IR index, and insulin level, and a significant increase in the level of ghrelin. Within-group comparison of those in the placebo group showed a significant increase in the level of ghrelin. CONCLUSIONS: This study found no statistical difference in any measured variable between the decaffeinated GTE and placebo groups; however, there were some statistically significant within-group changes detected. More research is required to determine whether a decaffeinated GTE standardized for EGCG content will provide any clinical benefits in obese individuals with type 2 diabetes. Clinical Trial Registration NO: NCT00567905.
Recent studies have described silver- and tau-positive glia and threads in the degenerating lesions of progressive supranuclear palsy. In this study, Gallyas-Braak silver impregnation and several immunohistochemical techniques were employed to examine the distribution of tangles, abnormal glia and threads in the cerebral cortex of nine cases of progressive supranuclear palsy. In addition to neurofibrillary tangles, argentophilic glia and threads were impregnated exclusively by Gallyas-Braak technique. This technique demonstrated two types of glia profiles: tightly coiled intra-cytoplasmic profiles surrounding nuclei (coiled profiles) and thorn-like profiles with radial ramifications (thorn-like profiles). Thorn-like profiles are possibly in astrocytes and were detected in the cerebral cortex, while coiled profiles are possibly in oligodendroglia and were detected both in the cerebral cortex and subcortical white matter. Topographically, many neurofibrillary tangles were constantly seen in the frontal cortex and in the pre-central gyrus. Numerous neurofibrillary tangles were detected in the entorhinal cortex of the two brains. Argentophilic glia and threads were also frequent both in the frontal cortex and the precentral gyrus; however, they were more frequent in the pre-central gyrus that in the frontal cortex in four of the eight cases examined. In two brains, argentophilic threads were distributed widely in the cerebral cortex and white matter except for the temporal cortex. In immunohistochemical studies, argentophilic glia and threads were mostly positive for Tau 2, and a small number of them were weakly positive for ubiquitin and paired helical filament protein. The immunoproperties of these abnormal glia and threads seemed to be virtually identical to those of neurofibrillary tangles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
By means of calcitonin screening programs, sporadic and hereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) can be detected at an early stage. We investigated the histopathologic findings of 16 familial (mean age 32 +/- 21 years, female/male ratio 1.6:1) and 34 sporadic (mean age 58 +/- 15 years; female/male ratio 2.4:1) MTCs with stage T1 comparatively. Patients with hereditary tumors were younger. Hereditary tumors were more often found multifocal (13 of 16 vs 3 of 34; p < 0.001), bilateral (11 of 16 vs 3 of 34; p < 0.001), displaying desmoplastic stroma (14 of 16 vs 19 of 34; p = 0.02), and accompanied by C cell hyperplasia (16 of 16 vs 24 of 34; p = 0.01), but all of these factors were present in some sporadic patients. Only tumors with desmoplastic stroma showed lymph node metastasis, which was observed in eight of the 50 patients. After surgery all patients showed permanent normalization of calcitonin levels. We conclude that 1) morphologic parameters considered to indicate familial MTC risk are of no value in the individual patient, 2) many sporadic MTCs develop on the background of CCH, 3) tumors with desmoplastic stroma are more likely to develop lymph node metastasis, and 4) early detection of MTC permits curative surgery in the majority of patients.
The impact of sleep restriction on the endogenous circadian rhythms of hunger and satiety were examined in 28 healthy young men. Participants were scheduled to 2 x 24-h days of baseline followed by 8 x 28-h days of forced desynchrony during which sleep was either moderately restricted (equivalent to 6 h in bed/24 h; n = 14) or severely restricted (equivalent to 4 h in bed/24 h; n = 14). Self-reported hunger and satisfaction were assessed every 2.5 h during wake periods using visual analogue scales. Participants were served standardised meals and snacks at regular intervals and were not permitted to eat ad libitum. Core body temperature was continuously recorded with rectal thermistors to determine circadian phase. Both hunger and satiety exhibited a marked endogenous circadian rhythm. Hunger was highest, and satiety was lowest, in the biological evening (i.e., ~17:00-21:00 h) whereas hunger was lowest, and satiety was highest in the biological night (i.e., 01:00-05:00 h). The results are consistent with expectations based on previous reports and may explain in some part the decrease in appetite that is commonly reported by individuals who are required to work at night. Interestingly, the endogenous rhythms of hunger and satiety do not appear to be altered by severe--as compared to moderate--sleep restriction.
The incidence of tuberculosis is increased during treatment of autoimmune diseases with anti-TNF antibodies. This is a significant clinical complication, but also provides a unique model to study immune mechanisms in human tuberculosis. Given the key role for cell-mediated immunity in host defense against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, we hypothesized that anti-TNF treatment impairs T cell-directed antimicrobial activity. Anti-TNF therapy reduced the expression in lymphocytes of perforin and granulysin, 2 components of the T cell-mediated antimicrobial response to intracellular pathogens. Specifically, M. tuberculosis-reactive CD8+CCR7-CD45RA+ effector memory T cells (TEMRA cells) expressed the highest levels of granulysin, lysed M. tuberculosis, and infected macrophages and mediated an antimicrobial activity against intracellular M. tuberculosis. Furthermore, TEMRA cells expressed cell surface TNF and bound the anti-TNF therapeutic infliximab in vitro, making them susceptible to complement-mediated lysis. Immune therapy with anti-TNF was associated with reduced numbers of CD8+ TEMRA cells and decreased antimicrobial activity against M. tuberculosis, which could be rescued by the addition of CD8+ TEMRA cells. These results suggest that anti-TNF therapy triggers a reduction of CD8+ TEMRA cells with antimicrobial activity against M. tuberculosis, providing insight into the mechanism whereby key effector T cell subsets contribute to host defense against tuberculosis.
It is now widely accepted that cancer is caused by complex interactions between genetic and epigenetic factors and the environment. Only in the last 20 years, DNA methylation has been recognized as an epigenetic mechanism, which plays a major role during the development and progression of cancers. Accordingly, DNA methylation profiling provides a useful source for biomarkers in distinct clinical questions; for example, risk stratification, diagnosis, staging, prognosis and therapy-response prediction. In the last 10 years, not only has an increase in the number of papers published on this subject been seen, but also an impressive technological advancement allowing for the highly sensitive and accurate quantification of DNA methylation biomarkers in challenging sample types. However, the development of a suitable biomarker with appropriate assay technology is not trivial. This is especially true for the choice of biomarkers used for the management of early diagnosis of lung cancer.
Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) is a progressive, insidious lung disease affecting allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation recipients. Unfortunately, there is no standardized approach for treatment of BOS in post-hematopoietic stem cell transplantation patients. Pulmonary rehabilitation is a standard treatment in emphysema, an irreversible obstructive lung disease secondary to tobacco abuse. The National Emphysema Treatment Trial (NETT) demonstrated improved exercise tolerance, decrease dyspnea, and increase of quality of life in patients with severe emphysema after pulmonary rehabilitation. We hypothesized that pulmonary rehabilitation may benefit patients with BOS. Patients with BOS were identified retrospectively from January 2005 to the present. Patients who enrolled in pulmonary rehabilitation were included in the study. We obtained summaries via chart review of each patient's progress after pulmonary rehabilitation enrollment from his or her respective rehabilitation centers. Six-minute walk distances, spirometry, and pulmonary symptoms were compared before and after the completion of pulmonary rehabilitation. We identified 11 patients with BOS documented from their pulmonologist's clinical notes who were enrolled into pulmonary rehabilitation. Ten of the 11 patients completed pulmonary rehabilitation. All patients had improvement in their 6-minute walk distances after the completion of pulmonary rehabilitation, with an average improvement in distance of 307 feet (P value = .005). Six of the 10 patients completed Short Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaires before and after rehabilitation. There was a significant improvement in the physical functioning score (P value = 0.029). Pulmonary rehabilitation seems to improve 6-minute walk distance, subjective symptoms of dyspnea, and exercise tolerance in patients with BOS. This may be an important adjunctive therapy for a debilitating disease with limited treatment options.
How do we estimate, from thermodynamic measurements, the number of water molecules adsorbed or released from biomolecules as a result of a biochemical process such as binding and allosteric effects? Volumetric and osmotic stress analyses are established methods for estimating water numbers; however, these techniques often yield conflicting results. In contrast, Kirkwood-Buff theory offers a novel way to calculate excess hydration number from volumetric data, provides a quantitative condition to gauge the accuracy of osmotic stress analysis, and clarifies the relationship between osmotic and volumetric analyses. I have applied Kirkwood-Buff theory to calculate water numbers for two processes: (i) the allosteric transition of hemoglobin and (ii) the binding of camphor to cytochrome P450. I show that osmotic stress analysis may overestimate hydration number changes for these processes.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a pleiotropic signalling molecule that binds to cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV) reversibly and in competition with oxygen. This action of NO has both physiological and pathophysiological consequences. Here we report that endogenously generated NO, which disrupts the respiratory chain, may cause changes in mitochondrial calcium flux. This induces cleavage of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-regulated transcription factor p90 ATF6 into an active p50 form. Cleavage depends on a calcium-dependent serine protease through a regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP) process. p50 ATF6 then translocates to the nucleus to upregulate expression of the ER-resident molecular chaperone, glucose-regulated protein 78 (Grp78). The increase in Grp78 provides significant cytoprotection against toxic agents, including thapsigargin, a selective ER calcium-ATPase inhibitor. Cytoprotection is abolished after treatment with cyclosporin A (CsA), which disrupts mitochondrial calcium signalling, or with the calcium chelator BAPTA-AM. The NO-mediated ER stress response is diminished in rho(0) cells devoid of mitochondrial DNA, consistent with our evidence that NO-dependent mitochondrial disruption is coupled to the ER stress response.
Hepatic lipase (HL) is a lipolytic enzyme involved in the catabolism of plasma lipoproteins, and is an important determinant of high density lipoproteins(HDL) concentration and low density lipoproteins(LDL) subclass distribution. Accordingly, HL activity may influence body's susceptibility to coronary artery disease (CAD). Association on the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the HL gene to post-heparin plasma HL activity and the plasma HDL-cholesterol concentration have been investigated thoroughly, but to date, little is known about th is in Chinese. In present study, the SNPs of the HL gene were analyzed. The promoter region and all the 9 exons with their flanking sequences of the HL gene were amplified from the Chinese patients with CAD and normal controls by PCR technique, and the PCR products were detected by denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) and sequenced with a dideoxy terminal termination method. As the result, a novel SNP-2T right curved arrow C in the promoter of HL gene was found. Compared with the control group, more CAD patients carried the -2C allele(TC+CC) (57.9% versus 42.7%, chi(2) =4.181, df=2, =0.041). The prevalence of the -2C allele was significantly higher in the CAD patients than in control subjects (chi(2)=3.988, df=1, P=0.046) and the odds ratio(OR) of -2C allele associated with the risk of CAD is 1.58 [95% confidence interval(CI): 1.01-2.47]. The -2C allele homozygous carriers in the CAD patients had a significantly higher HDL-cholesterol level than the noncarriers [(1.13-/+0.24) mmol/L versus (0.91-/+0.14) mmol/L, P<0.05]. These suggest that a T right curved arrow C substitution at -2 of the HL promoter may be associated with th e variation of HDL-cholesterol concentration and therefore affect the risk of CAD in Chinese.
Interleukin-23 (IL-23) is a conventional proinflammatory IL related to colorectal carcinoma (CRC). The signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) and suppressors of cytokine signaling (Socs) molecules, respectively, serve as agonists and antagonists of IL-23-associated inflammation. However, it remains unknown whether IL-23 directly affects CRC metastasis. In this study, we measured the metastasis of several human CRC cell lines stimulated by IL-23 in vitro and in vivo. Interestingly, the prometastasis effect of IL-23 was observed only in SW-620 cells. IL-23-associated migration and invasion was mediated by the phosphorylation of STAT5. The expression of Socs3 in SW-620 was impaired by IL-23 via DNA methylation and DNA methyltransferase-1 (DNMT-1)-dependent way. The DNMT-1-associated regulation was not observed in the other three cells. Socs3 was further confirmed to inhibit the prometastatic function of IL-23 both in vitro and in vivo. We analyzed the clinical correlation between the level of IL-23 in tumors and the metastasis of CRC and found that higher IL-23 levels along with lower Socs3 in CRC tissues accounted for more metastatic cases. In conclusion, it was demonstrated that IL-23, assisted by STAT5, might only promote the metastasis of CRC with deficient Socs3 expression in which IL-23-induced DNMT-1 was involved. It was elucidated that Socs3 seemed to be one of the important factors that mediate the selectivity of IL-23. Taken together, these discoveries give rise to new insights into the role of IL-23 in cancer biology and provide additional preclinical data regarding IL-23-associated therapy for CRC.
Human topoisomerase IIIalpha (huTop IIIalpha) has been demonstrated to belong to type IA subfamily. In this study, we found that huTop IIIalpha expressed constitutively and remained at high levels throughout the cell cycle in HL-60 cells when compared to the cell-cycle-dependent expression of huTop IIIalpha in phytohemagglutinin-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes. During the cell cycle progression, this protein remained accentuated in the nucleolus without significant translocation from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm. In addition, during the course of granulocytic maturation in DMSO-treated HL-60 cells, huTop IIIalpha levels decreased when cells stopped proliferation and nucleoli diminished in size. However, its level remained unchanged during the course of monocytic maturation of vitamin D(3)-treated HL-60 cells which still retained its proliferative capacity and did not change the size of the nucleolus. The data suggested that huTop IIIalpha is involved in rDNA metabolism, such as rDNA transcription. Its cellular level appeared to be under control during the cell cycle progression of normal lymphocytes, but was found to be deregulated in HL-60 cells which may be associated with the tumor transformed cell phenotypes.
Despite being a center of debate in biology for centuries, the connection between the generation of novel adaptive variation and its inheritance remains a contentious issue. In evolutionary and behavioral ecology, assigning natural and sexual selection a creative and anticipatory role unmasks the need to explicitly consider the link between a trait's functional importance and its inheritance and results in confusion about selection as an adaptive modifier of development versus selection as a passive filter of already produced forms. In developmental genetics, an emphasis on regulatory versus coding aspects of molecular evolutionary change overlooks the fundamental question of the origination of an inherited developmental toolkit and assignment of its regulatory functions. Because maternal effects, by definition, combine developmental induction of functionally important changes and their inheritance, they bridge the origin and evolution of organismal adaptability, at least on short time scales. The explosion of empirical studies of maternal effects raises a question--are maternal effects ubiquitous but short-term adjusters and fine-tuners of an evolved form with only secondary importance for evolutionary change? Or are they a particularly clear example of a stage in a continuum of inheritance systems that accumulates, internalizes, and passes on the most consistent and adaptive organism-environment interactions? Here I place recent empirical studies of avian maternal effects into the evolutionary framework of variation, selection, and inheritance to examine whether maternal effects provide a window into evolutionary processes.
BACKGROUND: Familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (FAP) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by the extracellular deposition of mutant transthyretin (TTR), with special involvement of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Currently, hepatic transplantation is considered the most efficient therapy to halt the progression of clinical symptoms in FAP since more than 95% of TTR is produced by the liver. However, less invasive and more reliable therapeutic approaches have been proposed for FAP therapy, namely based on drugs acting as inhibitors of amyloid formation or as amyloid disruptors. We have recently reported that epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), the most abundant catechin in green tea, is able to inhibit TTR aggregation and fibril formation, "in vitro" and in a cellular system, and is also able to disrupt pre-formed amyloid fibrils "in vitro". METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In the present study, we assessed the effect of EGCG subchronic administration on TTR amyloidogenesis "in vivo", using well characterized animal models for FAP. Semiquantitative immunohistochemistry (SQ-IHC) and Western blot analysis of mice tissues after treatment demonstrated that EGCG inhibits TTR toxic aggregates deposition in about 50% along the gastrointestinal tract (GI) and peripheral nervous system (PNS). Moreover EGCG treatment considerably lowered levels of several biomarkers associated with non-fibrillar TTR deposition, namely endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress, protein oxidation and apoptosis markers. Treatment of old FAP mice with EGCG resulted not only in the decrease of non-fibrillar TTR deposition but also in disaggregation of amyloid deposits. Consistently, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and serum amyloid P component (SAP), both markers of amyloid deposition, were also found reduced in treated old FAP mice. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: The dual effect of EGCG both as TTR aggregation inhibitor and amyloid fibril disruptor together with the high tolerability and low toxicity of EGCG in humans, point towards the potential use of this compound, or optimized derivatives, in the treatment of TTR-related amyloidoses.
OBJECTIVE: The differences in clinical features between influenza A H1N1, A H3N2, and B in the past three influenza seasons were examined. METHODOLOGY: Patients with respiratory symptoms who consulted Kurume University Medical Center, Department of Internal Medicine, Kurume, Fukuoka, Japan, from January to March in 1999, 2000, and 2001 were included. Based on virological and serological findings, the influenza patients were divided into the above three groups for comparison of symptoms and laboratory data. RESULTS: PATIENTS: (n = 196) included 54 with influenza A H1N1, 98 with A H3N2, and 44 with B. Mean ages in the groups were 33 +/- 8.4 years, 41 +/- 15.2 years, and 29 +/- 9.8 years (influenza B patients tended to be younger). Fever was much greater in the A H3N2 group (38.6 +/- 0.46 degrees C) than in the A H1N1 or B groups. This was also true for laboratory indices of viral infection. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, epigastralgia, and diarrhoea were prominent in influenza B. Myalgia was common in all groups. CONCLUSIONS: Influenza A H3N2 infection was more severe than A H1N1 or B in terms of fever, leukopenia, and C-reactive protein. Myalgia and other symptoms such as fever, headache, general malaise and sore throat were equally frequent in influenza A H3N2, A H1N1, and B infections. Gastrointestinal symptoms were more common in influenza B.
BACKGROUND: Studies in rodent models of epilepsy suggest that multidrug efflux transporters at the blood-brain barrier, such as P-glycoprotein, might contribute to pharmacoresistance by reducing target-site concentrations of antiepileptic drugs. We assessed P-glycoprotein activity in vivo in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. METHODS: We selected 16 patients with pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy who had seizures despite treatment with at least two antiepileptic drugs, eight patients who had been seizure-free on antiepileptic drugs for at least a year after 3 or more years of active temporal lobe epilepsy, and 17 healthy controls. All participants had a baseline PET scan with the P-glycoprotein substrate (R)-[(11)C]verapamil. Pharmacoresistant patients and healthy controls then received a 30-min infusion of the P-glycoprotein-inhibitor tariquidar followed by another (R)-[(11)C]verapamil PET scan 60 min later. Seizure-free patients had a second scan on the same day, but without tariquidar infusion. Voxel-by-voxel, we calculated the (R)-[(11)C]verapamil plasma-to-brain transport rate constant, K1 (mL/min/cm(3)). Low baseline K1 and attenuated K1 increases after tariquidar correspond to high P-glycoprotein activity. FINDINGS: Between October, 2008, and November, 2011, we completed (R)-[(11)C]verapamil PET studies in 14 pharmacoresistant patients, eight seizure-free patients, and 13 healthy controls. Voxel-based analysis revealed that pharmacoresistant patients had lower baseline K1, corresponding to higher baseline P-glycoprotein activity, than seizure-free patients in ipsilateral amygdala (0.031 vs 0.036 mL/min/cm(3); p=0.014), bilateral parahippocampus (0.032 vs 0.037; p<0.0001), fusiform gyrus (0.036 vs 0.041; p<0.0001), inferior temporal gyrus (0.035 vs 0.041; p<0.0001), and middle temporal gyrus (0.038 vs 0.044; p<0.0001). Higher P-glycoprotein activity was associated with higher seizure frequency in whole-brain grey matter (p=0.016) and the hippocampus (p=0.029). In healthy controls, we noted a 56.8% increase of whole-brain K1 after 2 mg/kg tariquidar, and 57.9% for 3 mg/kg; in patients with pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy, whole-brain K1 increased by only 21.9% for 2 mg/kg and 42.6% after 3 mg/kg. This difference in tariquidar response was most pronounced in the sclerotic hippocampus (mean 24.5% increase in patients vs mean 65% increase in healthy controls, p<0.0001). INTERPRETATION: Our results support the hypothesis that there is an association between P-glycoprotein overactivity in some regions of the brain and pharmacoresistance in temporal lobe epilepsy. If this relation is confirmed, and P-glycoprotein can be identified as a contributor to pharmacoresistance, overcoming P-glycoprotein overactivity could be investigated as a potential treatment strategy. FUNDING: EU-FP7 programme (EURIPIDES number 201380).
The presence of glucose in the intestinal lumen elicits a number of changes in gastrointestinal function, including inhibition of gastric emptying and food intake and stimulation of pancreatic and intestinal secretion. The present study tested the hypothesis that Na(+)-glucose cotransporter (SGLT)-3, a member of the SGLT family of transport proteins, is involved in detection of luminal glucose in the intestine. Gastric emptying, measured in awake rats, was significantly inhibited by perfusion of the intestine with glucose (60 and 90 mg); this effect was mimicked by alpha-methyl glucose (nonmetabolizable substrate of SGLT-1 and -3) but not 2-deoxy-d-glucose (substrate for GLUT-2) or isoosmotic mannitol. Gastric motility and intestinal fluid secretion, measured in anesthetised rats, were significantly inhibited and stimulated, respectively, by duodenal glucose but not galactose, which has a much lower affinity for SGLT-3 than glucose. Duodenal glucose but not galactose stimulated the release of 5-HT into mesenteric lymph and stimulated the discharge of duodenal vagal afferent fibers. mRNA for SGLT-3 was identified in the duodenal mucosa. Together these data suggest that detection of glucose in the intestine may involve SGLT-3, possibly expressed by enterochromaffin cells in the intestinal mucosa, and release of 5-HT.
Rolling circle amplification (RCA) is a new method based on virus DNA reproduction, which has been widely used in the field of miRNA detection. However, discrimination of highly homologous miRNAs is a bottleneck in the research of miRNA. In this study, the RCA process was creatively used to conduct the discrimination of miRNAs. Results showed that T4 RNA ligase 2 could reach the highest circularization efficiency during the RCA process with higher specificity. By using RCA technology, a member of highly homologous miRNAs, let-7, could be discriminated at the amount of 2.5 fmol. This sensitivity could not be achieved by using traditional reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) method. In addition, detection of miRNAs by using RCA could reach the amount limit of fmol with a good linearity. Optimal RCA technology used in this study is better than RT-qPCR in discriminating highly homologous family miRNAs. Results from this study can promote the applications of RCA in clinical diagnosis, environment protection, health care, disease inspection and prevention, and national security.
A case of de novo acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) M2, with trisomy 4 and double minute (dmin) chromosomes is reported. Amplification of the MYC gene ascertained by FISH was associated with dmin. A review of the literature of trisomy 4-dmin-associated AML shows that this entity preferentially occurs in elderly women and is not always associated with previously identified exposition to mutagens.
The development of solid-phase peptide synthesis in the early 1960s and recombinant DNA technology in the early 1970s boosted the scientific interest of utilizing proteins and peptides as potential therapeutic agents to battle poorly controlled diseases. While there has been rapid progress in the development and synthesis of new proteins and peptides as potential therapeutic agents, the formulation and development of the associated delivery systems is lacking. The development of delivery systems is equally important due to the problems of stability, low bioavailability and short half-life of proteins and peptides. The main problem in this field is that low stability leads to low bioavailability. In this review we draw attention to chrono-pharmacological drug-delivery systems, which can be used to match the delivery of therapeutic agents with the biological rhythm. They are very important especially in endocrinology and in vaccine therapy. We show that the treatment of hypopituitary dwarfism by administration of human growth-hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) is more effective when GHRH is administered in a pulsatile manner that exhibits a period characteristic of the patient's circadian rhythm. Here we examine how to design novel chrono-pharmacological drug-delivery systems that should be able to release the therapeutic agents at predetermined intervals.
Gastric cancer incidence and mortality have been decreasing in Japan. These decreases are likely due to a decrease in prevalence of Helicobacter pylori infection. Our aim was to characterize the trends in prevalence of H. pylori infection focused on birth-year. We carried out a cross-sectional study that included 4285 subjects who were born from 1926 to 1989. We defined H. pylori infection by the serum H. pylori antibody titer. Individuals having H. pylori infection and those with negative H. pylori antibody titer and positive pepsinogen test were defined as high-risk individuals for gastric cancer. We estimated the birth-year percent change (BPC) of the prevalence by Joinpoint regression analysis. The prevalence of H. pylori infection among the subjects born from 1927 to 1949 decreased from 54.0% to 42.0% with a BPC of -1.2%. It was followed by a rapid decline in those born between 1949 (42.0%) and 1961 (24.0%) with a BPC of -4.5%, which was followed by those born between 1961 (24.0%) and 1988 (14.0%) with a BPC of -2.1%. The proportion of high-risk individuals for gastric cancer among the subjects born from 1927 to 1942 decreased from 62.0% to 55.0% with a BPC of -0.8%. A subsequent rapid declining trend was observed in those born between 1942 (55.0%) and 1972 (18.0%) with a BPC of -3.6%, and then it became stable. These remarkable declining trends in the prevalence of H. pylori infection by birth-year would be useful to predict the future trend in gastric cancer incidence in Japan.
BACKGROUND: Medication non-adherence seems to be a particular problem in younger patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and has a negative impact on disease outcome. AIMS: To assess whether non-adherence, defined using thiopurine metabolite levels, is more common in young adults attending a transition clinic than adults with IBD and whether psychological co-morbidity is a contributing factor. We also determined the usefulness of the Modified Morisky 8-item Adherence Scale (MMAS-8) to detect non-adherence. METHODS: Seventy young adults [51% (36) male] and 74 [62% (46) male] adults were included. Psychological co-morbidity was assessed using the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS) and self-reported adherence using the MMAS-8. RESULTS: Twelve percent (18/144) of the patients were non-adherent. Multivariate analysis [OR, (95% CI), P value] confirmed that being young adult [6.1 (1.7-22.5), 0.001], of lower socio-economic status [1.1 (1.0-1.1), <0.01] and reporting higher HADS-D scores [1.2 (1.0-1.4), 0.01] were associated with non-adherence. Receiver operator curve analysis of MMAS-8 scores gave an area under the curve (95% CI) of 0.85 (0.77-0.92), (P < 0.0001): using a cut-off of <6, the MMAS-8 score has a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 64% to predict thiopurine non-adherence. Non-adherence was associated with escalation in therapy, hospital admission and surgeries in the subsequent 6 months of follow up. CONCLUSIONS: Non-adherence to thiopurines is more common in young adults with inflammatory bowel disease, and is associated with lower socio-economic status and depression. The high negative predictive value of MMAS-8 scores <6 suggests that it could be a useful screen for thiopurine non-adherence.
Since its inception, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) has been a source of controversy in American politics. Its enactment allowed leave for employees and their family members for serious medical conditions, while maintaining their employment status. This study is an exploratory look into the utilization and effectiveness of the FMLA for 45 caregivers of children with chronic illnesses. Results of a survey indicated that being female (p <.01), unmarried (p <.05), and having an annual income less than 35,000 dollars (p <.001) have significant negative effects on the eligibility, utilization, and effectiveness of the FMLA for caregivers of ill children. The authors argue for improved dissemination of FMLA eligibility to employees and employers, and a reexamination of the eligibility criteria.
BACKGROUND: In January 2010, dalfampridine extended release tablets (dalfampridine-ER [Ampyra *]; prolonged-, modified- or sustained-release fampridine [Fampyra dagger] in some countries), 10 mg to be administered twice daily approximately 12 hours apart, were approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. This was the first drug indicated to improve walking in patients with MS. SCOPE: Publications describing the pharmacokinetics of dalfampridine-ER or the immediate release formulation were identified from a search of PubMed through June 2012 using the search terms 'dalfampridine OR fampridine OR 4-aminopyridine' AND 'pharmacokinetics' and were supplemented with unpublished studies made available by Acorda Therapeutics Inc. FINDINGS: Pharmacokinetic studies show dose proportionality, with dalfampridine-ER having a more favorable profile than immediate-release dalfampridine. With twice-daily dosing of dalfampridine-ER, time to peak plasma concentration (3.2-3.9 hours) and apparent terminal plasma half-life (5.6-6.4 hours) are approximately twice those of immediate-release formulations, with comparable overall exposure and peak plasma concentrations (21.6 ng/mL) that were maintained at levels approximately 50% lower than immediate release. Steady state is achieved within 39 hours; pharmacokinetics are predictable based on single dosing. Trough plasma concentrations of 13-15 ng/mL are required to maintain efficacy. Renal excretion is predominantly as unchanged compound, and renal clearance in healthy individuals exceeds the glomerular filtration rate. Since dalfampridine-ER exposure increases with renal impairment, it is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe impairment in the US, and in patients with any renal impairment in the European Union. CONCLUSIONS: Dalfampridine-ER has low protein binding, is not a substrate for p-glycoprotein and does not affect CYP450 enzymes, suggesting a low potential for drug-drug interactions. Because of the narrow therapeutic range and risk of adverse events, including seizure, with increasing plasma concentrations, the recommended dose and regimen of dalfampridine-ER should not be exceeded and not be used with other dalfampridine formulations. A limitation of this review is that it includes some data that have not yet been published.
The structural and energetic consequences of cytosine methylation in the 5-position on the supercoil-dependent B-Z equilibrium in alternating dC-dG sequences cloned into recombinant plasmids were investigated. The helical parameters determined with the band shift method for right-handed [10.7 base pairs (bp)/turn] and left-handed (12.8 bp/turn) 5MedC-dG inserts were different from the helical repeat values for unmethylated dC-dG inserts (10.5 bp/turn in the right-handed and 11.5 bp/turn in the left-handed form). We analyzed the thermodynamic parameters delta GBZ (free energy difference per base pair between right-handed and left-handed helix structure), delta Gjx (free energy for formation of one B-Z junction), and b (helix unwinding at a junction region) for varying lengths of dC-dG inserts by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and application of a statistical mechanics model. A comparison of plasmids fully methylated in vitro with HhaI methylase and their unmethylated counterparts revealed that delta Gjx is not significantly changed by cytosine methylation. However, this base modification results in an approximate 3-fold decrease of delta GBZ and an approximate 2-fold decrease of the unwinding b at B-Z junction regions. Analysis of a pair of related plasmids, each containing two dC-dG blocks, revealed qualitatively different transition behaviors. When the two dC-dG blocks were separated by 95 bp of a mixed sequence, they underwent independent B to Z transitions with separate nucleation events and junction formations. When the two blocks were separated by only a 4 bp GATC sequence, only one nucleation event was necessary, and the Z-helix spread across the nonalternating GATC region.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Crohn's disease (CD) is associated with a disturbed intestinal barrier. Permeability studies have focused on inert molecules, but little is known about transepithelial transport of macromolecules with antigenic potential in humans. The aim of this study was to quantify permeation and to characterize passage routes for macromolecules in ileal mucosa in CD. METHODS: Noninflamed and inflamed ileal mucosa specimens from patients with CD (n = 12) and ileal specimens from patients with colon cancer (n = 7) were studied regarding transmucosal permeation of ovalbumin, dextran (mol wt, 40,000), and 51Cr-EDTA for 90 minutes in vitro in Ussing chambers. Transepithelial passage routes for fluorescent ovalbumin and dextran 40,000 were investigated by confocal microscopy. RESULTS: Noninflamed ileum from CD patients showed increased permeation of ovalbumin compared with ileum from colon cancer patients (P < 0.05). Dextran permeation was equal in the three groups, whereas 51Cr-EDTA permeability was increased in inflamed ileum. Ovalbumin passed both transcellularly and paracellularly, but dextran followed a strictly paracellular route. Both markers were subsequently endocytosed by cells of the lamina propria. CONCLUSIONS: Noninflamed ileal mucosa from patients with CD shows increased epithelial permeability to ovalbumin, probably by augmented transcytosis. This increase in antigen load to the lamina propria could be an initiating pathogenic event in CD.
CONCLUSIONS: The expression of phosphorylcholine (ChoP) in the surface of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) is an important factor in the pathogenesis of persistent otitis media with effusion (OME) in humans. OBJECTIVES: Lipooligosaccharide (LOS) in NTHi undergoes phase variation in expression of the ChoP epitope. In this study, we examined the phase variation of NTHi isolated from the nasopharynx of children who suffer from OME, and investigated the relationship between the phase variation and the pathogenesis of OME. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Forty NTHi strains were isolated from the nasopharynx of children with OME, and the ChoP expression of NTHi was examined by colony immunoblot analysis. The NTHi strains were classified into three groups according to the level of ChoP expression, i.e. strong, moderate, and weak expression groups. An adherence assay was also performed. RESULTS: The NTHi strains expressing ChoP(+) LOS glycoforms accounted for 63% of all NTHi tested. Clinically, the strong expression group of ChoP were related to prolongation of the duration of OME. The adherence assay with the CCL 20.2 cell line revealed that the strong expression group attached more easily to the cell surface than the weak expression group.
Although SWI3-related gene (SRG3), a chromatin remodeling factor, is critical for various biological processes including early embryogenesis and thymocyte development, it is unclear whether SRG3 is involved in the differentiation of CD4+ T cells, the key mediator of adaptive immune responses. Because it is known that experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) development is determined by the activation of CD4+ T helper cells, here, we investigated the role of SRG3 in EAE development using SRG3 transgenic mouse models exhibiting two distinct SRG3 expression patterns: SRG3 expression driven by either the CD2 or beta-actin promoter. We found that the outcome of EAE development was completely different depending on the expression pattern of SRG3. The specific over-expression of SRG3 using the CD2 promoter facilitated EAE via the induction of Th1 and Th17 cells, whereas the ubiquitous over-expression of SRG3 using the beta-actin promoter inhibited EAE by promoting Th2 differentiation and suppressing Th1 and Th17 differentiation. In addition, the ubiquitous over-expression of SRG3 polarized CD4+ T cell differentiation towards the Th2 phenotype by converting dendritic cells (DCs) or macrophages to Th2 types. SRG3 over-expression not only reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine production by DCs but also shifted macrophages from the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-expressing M1 phenotype to the arginase-1-expressing M2 phenotype during EAE. In addition, Th2 differentiation in beta-actin-SRG3 Tg mice during EAE was associated with an increase in the basophil and mast cell populations and in IL4 production. Furthermore, the increased frequency of Treg cells in the spinal cord of beta-actin-SRG3 Tg mice might induce the suppression of and accelerate the recovery from EAE symptoms. Taken together, our results provide the first evidence supporting the development of a new therapeutic strategy for EAE involving the modulation of SRG3 expression to induce M2 and Th2 polarization, thereby inhibiting inflammatory immune responses.
The excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) has been implicated in a variety of disorders, but to date, ROS scavengers have not been widely used for local treatment of inflammation, because they are rapidly eliminated from the inflamed site. We have designed a novel redox injectable gel (RIG) that is formed at 37 degrees C after disintegration of nano-assembled flower micelles allowing nitroxide radicals to act locally as specific ROS scavengers for the treatment of periodontitis. In the present study, we have confirmed retention of the RIG in the periodontal region, along with its antioxidant-related anti-inflammatory effects, and we have subsequently evaluated the inhibitory effect of the RIG against Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis)-induced alveolar bone loss attributed to ROS. Alveolar bone loss was estimated by morphometry, gingival blood flow was measured using laser Doppler flowmetry, and osteoclast differentiation was evaluated by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining. The results show that the RIG can inhibit P. gingivalis-induced bone loss by antioxidant-related anti-inflammatory actions, and this suggests that the RIG is a promising novel therapeutic agent for the treatment of P. gingivalis-induced periodontitis.
Activating mutations of fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 (FGFR3) have been described in approximately 75% of low-grade papillary bladder tumors. In muscle-invasive disease, FGFR3 mutations are found in 20% of tumors, but overexpression of FGFR3 is observed in about half of cases. Therefore, FGFR3 is a particularly promising target for therapy in bladder cancer. Up to now, most drugs tested for inhibition of FGFR3 have been small molecule, multityrosine kinase inhibitors. More recently, a specific inhibitory monoclonal antibody targeting FGFR3 (R3Mab) has been described and tested preclinically. In this study, we have evaluated mutation and expression status of FGFR3 in 19 urothelial cancer cell lines and a cohort of 170 American patients with bladder cancer. We have shown inhibitory activity of R3Mab on tumor growth and corresponding cell signaling in three different orthotopic xenografts of bladder cancer. Our results provide the preclinical proof of principle necessary to translate FGFR3 inhibition with R3Mab into clinical trials in patients with bladder cancer.
A number of Solanum nigrum mutants resistant to the antibiotics spectinomycin, streptomycin and lincomycin have been isolated from regenerating leaf strips after mutagenesis with nitroso-methylurea. Selection of streptomycin- and spectinomycin-resistant mutants has been described earlier. Lincomycin-resistant mutants show resistance to higher levels of the antibiotic than used in the initial selection, and in the most resistant mutant (L17A1) maternal inheritance of the trait was demonstrated. The lincomycin-resistant mutant L17A1 and a streptomycin plus spectinomycin resistant double mutant (StSp1) were chosen for detailed molecular characterisation. Regions of the plastid DNA, within the genes encoding 16S and 23S rRNA and rps12 (3') were sequenced. For spectinomycin and lincomycin resistance, base changes identical to those in similar Nicotiana mutants were identified. Streptomycin resistance is associated with an A-->C change at codon 87 of rps12 (converting a lysine into a glutamine), three codons upstream from a mutation earlier reported for Nicotiana. This site has not previously been implicated in streptomycin resistance mutations of higher plants, but has been found in Escherichia coli. The value of these mutants for studies on plastid genetics is discussed.
Three of four nonketotic hyperglycinemia patients homozygous for a novel GLDC mutation (A802V) were treated by assisted respiration and/or sodium benzoate with or without ketamine and had transient neonatal or absent symptoms and normal developmental outcome, despite persisting biochemical evidence of nonketotic hyperglycinemia. This exceptional outcome may be related to the high residual activity of the mutant protein (32% of wild type) and therapeutic intervention during a critical period of heightened brain exposure and sensitivity to glycine.
Atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetic patients has been linked to increased oxidative stress. Glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPx-1) plays an important role in the antioxidant defense of the vascular wall. To assess the association between variants in the GPx-1 gene and atherosclerosis, we screened the gene in 184 Japanese type 2 diabetic patients and identified four polymorphisms (-602A/G, +2C/T, Ala(5)/Ala(6), and Pro198Leu). Among these polymorphisms, -602G, +2T, Ala(6), and 198Leu were in strong linkage disequilibrium with each other. The patients were divided into two groups on the basis of the codon 198 polymorphism, Pro/Pro (n = 151) and Pro/Leu (n = 33), to analyze clinical characteristics. The mean intima-media thickness (IMT) of common carotid arteries (P = 0.0028) and the prevalence of cardiovascular disease (P = 0.035) and peripheral vascular disease (P = 0.027) were significantly higher in the Pro/Leu group than in the Pro/Pro group. In vitro functional analyses indicated that the combination of polymorphisms (Ala(6)/198Leu) of the GPx-1 gene had a 40% decrease in enzyme activity, and the combination of polymorphisms (-602G/+2T) had a 25% decrease in transcriptional activity. These results suggest that functional variants in the GPx-1 gene are associated with increased IMT of carotid arteries and risk of cardiovascular and peripheral vascular diseases in type 2 diabetic patients.
In response to viral infection, cytosolic retinoic acid-inducible gene I-like receptors sense viral RNA and promote oligomerization of mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), which then recruits tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) family proteins, including TRAF6, to activate an antiviral response. Currently, the interaction between MAVS and TRAF6 is only partially understood, and atomic details are lacking. Here, we demonstrated that MAVS directly interacts with TRAF6 through its potential TRAF6-binding motif 2 (T6BM2; amino acids 455-460). Further, we solved the crystal structure of MAVS T6BM2 in complex with the TRAF6 TRAF_C domain at 2.95 A resolution. T6BM2 of MAVS binds to the canonical adaptor-binding groove of the TRAF_C domain. Structure-directed mutational analyses in vitro and in cells revealed that MAVS binding to TRAF6 via T6BM2 instead of T6BM1 is essential but not sufficient for an optimal antiviral response. Particularly, a MAVS mutant Y460E retained its TRAF6-binding ability as predicted but showed significantly impaired signaling activity, highlighting the functional importance of this tyrosine. Moreover, these observations were further confirmed in MAVS(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblast cells. Collectively, our work provides a structural basis for understanding the MAVS-TRAF6 antiviral response.
BACKGROUND: South Africa uses indoor residual spraying (IRS) for vector control in its malaria control programme (MCP). Insecticide-treated wall linings (ITWLs) offer possible advantages over IRS and long-lasting, insecticide-treated nets (LLINs). This study assessed the user acceptability and perceived effectiveness, and the durability, including efficacy through bioassays, of a newly developed, monofilament polyethylene ITWL. METHODS: Four ITWL formulations/treatments, two incorporated with deltamethrin and two with alpha-cypermethrin in concentrations ranging from 0.29 to 0.85 wt%, and untreated linings were randomly installed on the inner walls of traditional mud huts (n = 20) and modern brick houses (n = 20) in a community village in Vhembe District, Limpopo Province. The linings were exposed to conditions within these dwellings over 6 months. Data were collected monthly through questionnaires and entomological residual efficacy analysis of ITWL, as part of durability testing, was done bimonthly using WHO prescribed bioassays. RESULTS: Monofilament polyethylene ITWLs were successfully installed in traditional sleeping huts and in bedrooms of modern type brick houses. ITWL remained intact throughout the entire 6 months of the study. Participants did not express any dissatisfaction towards the linings although two participants indicated the product should be fitted at a lower level for better results. User perceived effectiveness was very high with participants reporting observed mortality of mosquitoes and other nuisance insects. This perception coincided with results obtained through residual efficacy bioassays where a 100 % knockdown and mortality of mosquitoes was recorded throughout the trial period. Acceptability regarding appearance, including colour, position and attachment method, was also satisfactory with some participants citing the lining as decorative. All participants opted to keep ITWL and residual long-term efficacy will be determined annually for a further 3 years. CONCLUSIONS: The newly developed ITWLs are highly accepted amongst participants in an unsprayed section of a village in a malaria-endemic area. The perceived effectiveness that coincides with results obtained through bioassays and acceptance of the overall appearance of ITWL will be evaluated over a longer term to determine sustainability. With further developing and testing, this ITWL has the potential to become a sustainable and safer alternative vector control method.
The heme iron in cytochrome c-550 from Thiobacillus versutus has a methionine and a histidine as axial ligands. In order to study the characteristics of a possible lysine-histidine ligation in a heme protein, the methionine has been replaced by a lysine. This residue acts as a ligand between pH 3 and 12. The midpoint potential of the mutant has shifted -329 mV compared to wild type, but apart from this shift the pH dependence of the midpoint potential is unchanged, suggesting that the large drop is caused by specific ligand effects and not by protein refolding. While the EPR spectrum of wild-type cytochrome c-550 shows one species with gz = 3.35, in the spectrum of the mutant two species occur with gz values of 3.53 and 3.30. The intensity ratio of both species depends on the presence of organic cosolvents. In the low frequency region (-4 to -1 ppm) of the 1H NMR spectrum of mutant ferrocytochrome c-550, four one-proton peaks replace the resonances of the ligand methionine side chain protons. Using two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy (COSY and NOESY), these protons and five others have been assigned to the lysine ligand. The spectroscopic results obtained for this mutant show similarities with those observed for the alkaline form of cytochrome c, supporting the Lys-His ligation proposed for this protein. The data are consistent with the evidence for amine ligation in cytochrome f: the EPR spectrum of M100K cytc-550 is similar to that of cytochrome f. However, the NMR spectra show significant differences.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Factors limiting trichothecene contamination of mature wheat grains after Fusarium infection are of major interest in crop production. In addition to ear infection, systemic translocation of deoxynivalenol (DON) may contribute to mycotoxin levels in grains after stem base infection with toxigenic Fusarium spp. However, the exact and potential mechanisms regulating DON translocation into wheat grains from the plant base are still unknown. We analyzed two wheat cultivars differing in susceptibility to Fusarium head blight (FHB), which were infected at the stem base with Fusarium culmorum in climate chamber experiments. Fungal DNA was found only in the infected stem base tissue, whereas DON and its derivative, DON-3-glucoside (D3G), were detected in upper plant parts. Although infected stem bases contained more than 10,000 mug kg(-)(1) dry weight (DW) of DON and mean levels of DON after translocation in the ear and husks reached 1,900 mug kg(-)(1) DW, no DON or D3G was detectable in mature grains. D3G quantification revealed that DON detoxification took mainly place in the stem basis, where </= 50% of DON was metabolized into D3G. Enhanced expression of a gene putatively encoding a uridine diphosphate-glycosyltransferase (GenBank accession number FG985273) was observed in the stem base after infection with F. culmorum. Resistance to F. culmorum stem base infection, DON glycosylation in the stem base, and mycotoxin translocation were unrelated to cultivar resistance to FHB. Histological studies demonstrated that the vascular transport of DON labeled with fluorescein as a tracer from the peduncle to the grain was interrupted by a barrier zone at the interface between grain and rachilla, formerly described as "xylem discontinuity". This is the first study to demonstrate the effective control of influx of systemically translocated fungal mycotoxins into grains at the rachilla-seed interface by the xylem discontinuity tissue in wheat ears.
Analytical performance specifications can be based on three different models: the effect of analytical performance on clinical outcome, based on components of biological variation of the measurand or based on state-of-the-art. Models 1 and 3 may to some degree be combined by using case histories presented to a large number of clinicians. The Norwegian Quality Improvement of Primary Care Laboratories (Noklus) has integrated vignettes in its external quality assessment programme since 1991, focusing on typical clinical situations in primary care. Haemoglobin, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), HbA1c, glucose, u-albumin, creatinine/estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), and Internationl Normalised Ratio (INR) have been evaluated focusing on critical differences in test results, i.e., a change from a previous result that will generate an "action" such as a change in treatment or follow-up of the patient. These critical differences, stated by physicians, can translate into reference change values (RCVs) and assumed analytical performance can be calculated. In general, assessments of RCVs and therefore performance specifications vary both within and between groups of doctors, but with no or minor differences regarding specialisation, age or sex of the general practitioner. In some instances state-of-the-art analytical performance could not meet clinical demands using 95% confidence, whereas clinical demands were met using 80% confidence in nearly all instances. RCVs from vignettes should probably not be used on their own as a basis for setting analytical performance specifications, since clinicians seem "uninformed" regarding important principles. They could rather be used as a background for focus groups of "informed" physicians in discussions of performance specifications tailored to "typical" clinical situations.
Self-medication with antimicrobial agents is a common form of self-care among patients globally with the prevalence and nature differing from country to country. Here we assessed the prevalence and predictors of antimicrobial self-medication in post-conflict northern Uganda. A cross-sectional study was carried out using structured interviews on 892 adult (>/=18 years) participants. Information on drug name, prescriber, source, cost, quantity of drug obtained, and drug use was collected. Households were randomly selected using multistage cluster sampling method. One respondent who reported having an illness within three months in each household was recruited. In each household, information was obtained from only one adult individual. Data was analyzed using STATA at 95% level of significance. The study found that a high proportion (75.7%) of the respondents practiced antimicrobial self-medication. Fever, headache, lack of appetite and body weakness were the disease symptoms most treated through self-medication (30.3%). The commonly self-medicated antimicrobials were coartem (27.3%), amoxicillin (21.7%), metronidazole (12.3%), and cotrimoxazole (11.6%). Drug use among respondents was mainly initiated by self-prescription (46.5%) and drug shop attendants (57.6%). On average, participants obtained 13.9+/-8.8 (95%CI: 12.6-13.8) tablets/capsules of antimicrobial drugs from drug shops and drugs were used for an average of 3.7+/-2.8 days (95%CI: 3.3-3.5). Over half (68.2%) of the respondents would recommend self-medication to another sick person. A high proportion (76%) of respondents reported that antimicrobial self-medication had associated risks such as wastage of money (42.1%), drug resistance (33.2%), and masking symptoms of underlying disease (15.5%). Predictors of self-medication with antimicrobial agents included gender, drug knowledge, drug leaflets, advice from friends, previous experience, long waiting time, and distance to the health facility. Despite knowledge of associated risks, use of self-medication with antimicrobial drugs in management of disease symptoms is a common practice in post-conflict northern Uganda.
AIMS: Tumour suppressor gene silencing through promoter hypermethylation plays an important role in oncogenesis. Carcinogenesis of hereditary cancers usually differs from that of their sporadic counterparts, but methylation has hardly been studied in hereditary ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate promoter methylation of a set of common tumour suppressor genes in BRCA1-related ovarian cancer in comparison with sporadic ovarian cancer. METHODS AND RESULTS: Methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification was used to assess the extent of promoter methylation of 24 different tumour suppressor genes in BRCA1-associated (n = 25) and matched sporadic ovarian tumours (n = 50). A cumulative methylation index (CMI) was calculated and differences between individual genes were analysed. There was no significant difference in cumulative methylation between BRCA1-associated and sporadic ovarian carcinomas (median CMI 108; CMI 110; P = 0.86). Also, methylation patterns of individual genes did not show distinct differences after correction for multiple comparisons. CDH13, GSTP1 and RASSF1 were frequently methylated in both sporadic and hereditary ovarian cancers. BRCA1 methylation occurred in 14% of sporadic tumours, but was not detected in BRCA1-associated tumours. CONCLUSIONS: CDH13, GSTP1 and RASSF1 are frequently methylated in both sporadic and BRCA1-associated ovarian cancers. Interestingly, methylation of BRCA1, while frequent in sporadic ovarian cancer, never occurred in the hereditary group. BRCA1-associated ovarian cancers mimic their sporadic counterparts in extent and pattern of promoter methylation of several common tumour suppressor genes. This finding could have implications for future chemotherapy regimens based on epigenetic changes.
Egress of malaria parasites from the host cell requires the concerted rupture of its enveloping membranes. Hence, we investigated the role of the plasmodial perforin-like protein PPLP2 in the egress of Plasmodium falciparum from erythrocytes. PPLP2 is expressed in blood stage schizonts and mature gametocytes. The protein localizes in vesicular structures, which in activated gametocytes discharge PPLP2 in a calcium-dependent manner. PPLP2 comprises a MACPF domain and recombinant PPLP2 has haemolytic activities towards erythrocytes. PPLP2-deficient [PPLP2(-)] merozoites show normal egress dynamics during the erythrocytic replication cycle, but activated PPLP2(-) gametocytes were unable to leave erythrocytes and stayed trapped within these cells. While the parasitophorous vacuole membrane ruptured normally, the activated PPLP2(-) gametocytes were unable to permeabilize the erythrocyte membrane and to release the erythrocyte cytoplasm. In consequence, transmission of PPLP2(-) parasites to the Anopheles vector was reduced. Pore-forming equinatoxin II rescued both PPLP2(-) gametocyte exflagellation and parasite transmission. The pore sealant Tetronic 90R4, on the other hand, caused trapping of activated wild-type gametocytes within the enveloping erythrocytes, thus mimicking the PPLP2(-) loss-of-function phenotype. We propose that the haemolytic activity of PPLP2 is essential for gametocyte egress due to permeabilization of the erythrocyte membrane and depletion of the erythrocyte cytoplasm.
BACKGROUND: Quality of nursing home care is of ongoing concern. The availability of uniform, patient-level information-the Minimum Data Set (MDS)-offers the opportunity to assess quality based on risk-adjusted health outcomes. OBJECTIVE: To develop a risk-adjusted measure of quality based on urinary incontinence (UI) outcomes for nursing homes, derived from the MDS. RESEARCH DESIGN: A retrospective statistical analysis of individual resident level data. SUBJECTS: MDS+ data for 46,453 residents of 671 nursing homes in New York State during the 1995 to 1997 period. MEASURES: Improvement in UI status was defined based on the resident's UI status at 3 months post admission relative to status at admission. Individual risk factors were also defined at admission. Facility level quality indicators were developed. RESULTS: Facility level indicators show substantial variation. An average facility, providing average quality care to a population of average risk, would experience improvement in UI outcomes for 11 of its 25 admissions in a year. The difference between the best and the worst facilities (two standard deviations above and below the average) is eight new residents with improvement in UI outcomes out of 25 annual admissions. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the feasibility of measuring quality of UI care based on nationally available MDS data. The measures presented can be used to support internal quality improvement efforts. Before such measures can be used externally, either in the survey process or in quality report cards, they should be further validated.
Axon regeneration after spinal cord injury in mammals is inadequate to restore function, illustrating the need to design better strategies for improving outcomes. Increasing the levels of the second messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) after spinal cord injury enhances axon regeneration across a wide variety of species, making it an excellent candidate molecule that has therapeutic potential. However, several important aspects of the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which cAMP enhances axon regeneration are still unclear, such as how cAMP affects axon growth patterns, the molecular components within growing axon tips, the lesion scar, and neuronal survival. To address these points, we took advantage of the large, identified reticulospinal (RS) neurons in lamprey, a vertebrate that exhibits robust axon regeneration after a complete spinal cord transection. Application of a cAMP analog, db-cAMP, at the time of spinal cord transection increased the number of axons that regenerated across the lesion site. Db-cAMP also promoted axons to regenerate in straighter paths, prevented abnormal axonal growth patterns, increased the levels of synaptotagmin within axon tips, and increased the number of axotomized neurons that survived after spinal cord injury, thereby increasing the pool of neurons available for regeneration. There was also a transient increase in the number of microglia/macrophages and improved repair of the lesion site. Taken together, these data reveal several new features of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying cAMP-mediated enhancement of axon regeneration, further emphasizing the positive roles for this conserved pathway.
In a prior report (Int J Cancer 2006; 119: 339-348), we described a new vaccination strategy for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). The vaccine was prepared by transfer of unfractionated DNA-fragments (25 kb) from KLN205 cells, a squamous carcinoma cell line (DBA/2 origin; H-2(d)) into LM cells, a highly immunogenic mouse fibroblast cell line (C3H/He origin; (H-2(k))). As only a small proportion of the transfected cell population was expected to have incorporated DNA segments that included genes specifying antigens associated with the squamous carcinoma cells, we devised a novel strategy to enrich the vaccine for immunotherapeutic cells. Enhanced immunity to squamous carcinoma was induced in tumor-bearing mice treated solely by immunization with the enriched vaccine, which translated into prolonged survival without toxicity. Here, we describe the characteristics of the cell populations infiltrating established squamous carcinomas undergoing regression in mice immunized with vaccines enriched for immunotherapeutic cells. The results indicated that CD8+ T cells were predominant and that T-regulatory cells (FoxP3+, CD4/CD25+, CD4/CD62L(high), CD4/CTLA-4e) were relatively deficient in the regressing tumors. Inflammatory infiltrates were not detected in various organs and tissues of mice immunized with the DNA-based vaccine.
The ability of a urinalysis reagent strip to predict the presence of formed elements in the sediment was evaluated. The sensitivity of individual biochemical analytes varies from 0.51 to 0.85; however, the combined sensitivity of positive reactions for either protein, nitrite, leukocyte esterase, and/or hemoglobin is 0.95. Leukocyte esterase activity becomes detectable at a concentration of 15 white blood cells per high-power field (WBCs/HPF). Proteinuria is nonspecifically related to pyuria and detects a minimum concentration of 6 WBCs/HPF, and the hemoglobin reaction detects 6 red blood cells/HPF. Most false negative reactions are associated with bacteriuria. A positive chemical reagent strip test can be safely and effectively used as a prerequisite for routine urine microscopic examination.
Bartonella clarridgeiae and several strains of Bartonella henselae, the agent of cat scratch disease, with variations in the 16S rRNA gene have been found to infect the blood of cats. An epidemiologic study of Bartonella infection in domestic French cats revealed that of 436 cats sampled, 5 cats (1.1%) were coinfected with B. henselae and B. clarridgeiae and 2 cats (0.5%) were coinfected with two strains of B. henselae with variations in the 16S rRNA gene, B. henselae type I and type II. In an indirect immunofluorescence assay, coinfected cats tested positive for both Bartonella species at titers of > or = 128. Identification of the colonies was achieved by preformed enzyme analysis, PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the citrate synthase gene, and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Colony size differences in mixed culture allowed differentiation of the Bartonella species. The coinfection of cats with two Bartonella species or variants of the same species raises concern about the possibility of dual infection in humans. The development of a polyvalent vaccine targeted against the most pathogenic or invasive strains may be a means of protecting cats and man from infection.
Haplopappus gracilis and Acer saccharum tissue culture cells are extremely sensitive to freezing injury, and exhibit a decrease in survival from 98% at -1 C to 4% at -3 C (Haplopappus) and 92% at -3 C to 13% at -5 C (Acer) when suspended in distilled H(2)O, seeded at -1 C, and then cooled by 0.1 C/minute. Similar results are obtained when cells are suspended in growth medium. The extent of shrinkage of cells during freezing can be duplicated by exposure of the cells to plasmolyzing solutions of nonpenetrating substances (Delta T(f) = 1.86 phivm). Solutions of sucrose and glycerol that produce extensive plasmolysis cause a decrease in survival within 3 to 5 minutes at room temperature, and the higher the molality to which the cell is exposed the greater the injury. Also, the rate of rehydration of the plasmolyzed cell and of the frozen cell affects its survival, with the slower rate being more beneficial. The close correlation between the decrease in survival at subzero temperatures and the decrease in survival when cells are placed in solutions having osmolalities, which could produce the same extent of shrinkage as these killing temperatures, suggests that this shrinkage is related to freezing injury in tissue culture cells.
OBJECTIVE: We recently bioengineered a ureter substitute from a seeded scaffold implanted by open surgery in the omentum. In view of the development of laparoscopy in the treatment of benign conditions of the ureter, obtaining a ureter substitute by minimally invasive techniques would be a desirable objective. However, conflicting results about the biological impact of carbon dioxide insufflation on the microcirculation of intra-abdominal organs prompted us to investigate first whether the results obtained by open surgery, in terms of vascular supply and maturation, could be reproduced laparoscopically. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Bladder full-thickness tissue was harvested laparoscopically from three pigs for urothelial and smooth muscle cell primary cultures subsequently used to seed a small intestinal submucosa (SIS) matrix. After 2 wk, the in vitro seeded constructs were shaped around silicone drains and transferred laparoscopically into the abdomen for omental maturation. Three weeks later, the constructs were harvested for histological, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic analysis. RESULTS: The laparoscopic procedures were performed successfully in all animals. After omental maturation, the constructs were vascularized and comprised of a well-differentiated multilayered urothelium with umbrella cells, over connective tissue and smooth muscle cells, with no evidence of fibrosis or inflammation. Electron microscopic analysis showed characteristics of a terminally differentiated urothelium. CONCLUSION: As shown by conventional microscopy, immunochemistry, and electron microscopy, carbon dioxide insufflation does not impact cell growth and differentiation. These findings validate the laparoscopic approach for omental maturation of ureter substitutes.
BACKGROUND: Mitochondria evolved from intracellular bacterial symbionts. Establishing mitochondria as organelles required a molecular machine to import proteins across the mitochondrial outer membrane. This machinery, the TOM complex, is composed of at least seven component parts, and its creation and evolution represented a sizeable challenge. Although there is good evidence that a core TOM complex, composed of three subunits, was established in the protomitochondria, we suggest that the receptor component of the TOM complex arose later in the evolution of this machine. RESULTS: We have solved by nuclear magnetic resonance the structure of the presequence binding receptor from the TOM complex of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The protein fold suggests that this protein, AtTom20, belongs to the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) superfamily, but it is unusual in that it contains insertions lengthening the helices of each TPR motif. Peptide titrations map the presequence binding site to a groove of the concave surface of the receptor. In vitro functional assays and peptide titrations suggest that the plant Tom20 is functionally equivalent to fungal and animal Tom20s. CONCLUSIONS: Comparison of the sequence and structure of Tom20 from plants and animals suggests that these two presequence binding receptors evolved from two distinct ancestral genes following the split of the animal and plant lineages. The need to bind equivalent mitochondrial targeting sequences and to make similar interactions within an equivalent protein translocation machine has driven the convergent evolution of two distinct proteins to a common structure and function.
The roles of residues at positions 23-31 adjacent to the 'effector region' and residues at positions 61-65 in a phosphoryl binding loop of the human c-Ha-ras protein were studied by changing each residue of the normal (Gly-12 type) and oncogenic (Val-12 type) Ras proteins to the corresponding residue of the K-rev-1 protein. Firstly, the signal-transducing activities of the mutant Ras proteins of Val-12 type were examined by analysis of their ability to induce neurite outgrowth of phaeochromocytoma (PC12) cells upon expression of the mutant ras gene. Thus, replacement of Glu-31 by Lys was found to impair the signal-transducing activity of the oncogenic Ras protein. Furthermore, it was shown that expression of the Gly-12----Val/Glu-31----Lys mutant Ras protein in PC12 cells suppresses neurite outgrowth induced either by microinjection of the oncogenic Ras protein or by addition of nerve growth factor to the medium. As for the Glu-31----Lys mutant Ras protein (Gly-12 type), the GTPase activity in the presence of GTPase-activating protein for Ras (GAPRas) is much lower than that of the normal Ras protein, whereas the intrinsic GTPase activity is nearly the same as that of the normal Ras protein. Therefore, Gly-31 is one of the determinants for the signal transduction and the correct interaction with GAPRas. On the other hand, the GTPase activity of the Gln-61----Thr mutant Ras protein (Gly-12 type) is negligibly low both in the absence and in the presence of GAPRas.
Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL) is a rare, genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive immune disorder that results when the critical regulatory pathways that mediate immune defense mechanisms and the natural termination of immune/inflammatory responses are disrupted or overwhelmed. To advance the understanding of FHL, we performed gene expression profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 11 children with untreated FHL. Total RNA was isolated and gene expression levels were determined using microarray analysis. Comparisons between patients with FHL and normal pediatric controls (n = 30) identified 915 down-regulated and 550 up-regulated genes with more than or equal to 2.5-fold difference in expression (P </= .05). The expression of genes associated with natural killer cell functions, innate and adaptive immune responses, proapoptotic proteins, and B- and T-cell differentiation were down-regulated in patients with FHL. Genes associated with the canonical pathways of interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-10 IL-1, IL-8, TREM1, LXR/RXR activation, and PPAR signaling and genes encoding of antiapoptotic proteins were overexpressed in patients with FHL. This first study of genome-wide expression profiling in children with FHL demonstrates the complexity of gene expression patterns, which underlie the immunobiology of FHL.
Glycosidases play a key role in a number of biological processes and, as such, are of considerable clinical and biotechnological importance. Knowledge of the identifies of catalytically important active site residues is essential for understanding the catalytic mechanism, for enzyme classification, and for targeted bioengineering of glycosidases with altered characteristics. Here we review and discuss traditional strategies and novel approaches based on tandem mass spectrometry for the identification of the key active site residues in glycosidases.
The evaluation of phagocytic and microbicidal activities of the blood neutrophils has been recognized as one of the important tools for investigating phagocytic dysfunctions in patients with recurrent infections. In the present study, these activities were examined in neutrophils and monocytes from healthy adults and patients affected by primary phagocytic dysfunctions by using a modified fluorochromic microbicidal assay, discriminating simultaneously the extracellular adherence, ingestion and intracellular killing of Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I. The assay employs acridine orange staining, as described in Bellinati-Pires et al. (1989) (AO assay), but was modified by the addition of an alternative leukocyte treatment with 0.5 U/ml of lysostaphin (LS) for 5 min at 37 degrees C, after phagocytosis (AO-LS assay). The LS treatment was standardized to eliminate staphylococci adhered to the outer surface of the phagocytes without affecting the determination of intracellular live or dead bacteria, as demonstrated in normal neutrophils and monocytes. Our purpose in this study was to compare AO and AO-LS assays in order to evaluate the effect of LS on the determination of actually ingested staphylococci and to provide a means for improving the fluorochromic assay for detecting phagocytic defects, as well as bactericidal disturbances. By using the AO-LS assay, decreased ingestion of staphylococci by neutrophils in Chediak-Higashi Syndrome (CHS) was demonstrated. However, increased staphylococci adherence, as well as ingestion, was observed in neutrophils or monocytes from chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) patients, comparing AO and AO-LS assays. Bactericidal defect, which is a common feature in CHS and CGD, was detected in neutrophils or monocytes in both assays. We emphasize that such alterations were deduced by comparing the patients' results with those obtained from their respective normal controls and with the normal range of values previously established for 160 healthy adults. No alteration was observed in hyper IgE syndrome phagocytes. Despite the possible penetration of LS into the leukocytes, as stated in other studies, we concluded that a short period of phagocyte incubation with this enzyme increased the sensitivity of the fluorochromic assay to detect phagocytic defect without affecting the determination of the bactericidal activity. Moreover, comparations between AO and AO-LS assays may be important in the study of the initial pathways of staphylococci phagocyte interaction, including adherence by non-phagocytic receptors.
Number and size-controlled macromolecular associations are common in biology with viruses as a typical example. We report here a novel example of artificial viruses, in which the double-helical DNA is coated with 4-nm sized neutral glycocluster nanoparticles (GNPs). The resulting "glycoviruses" are compactly-packed, well charge-shielded (zeta approximately = 0 mV), and effectively transfect cell cultures without notable cytotoxicity.
Angiogenesis, the development and growth of blood vessels, is a major topic of research which began in 1971 with Folkman's original hypothesis. Different mechanisms of blood vessel growth are sprouting and intussusceptive angiogenesis, vascular mimicry, and blood vessel cooption. Dis-regulated angiogenesis may result in numerous angiogenic diseases and is responsible for solid tumor growth and metastasis. Vascular endothelial cells are generally dormant in adult but in pathological conditions when tumors reach a size of about 0.2-2.0 mm in diameter, they become hypoxic and hindered in tumor growth in the lack of angiogenesis. During angiogenic switch pro-angiogenic factors predominate and result in angiogenesis and tumor progression. Angiogenesis switch leads to the increased production of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) following up-regulation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor. The VEGF family comprises from VEGF (VEGF-A), VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, and placental growth factor (PlGF). The VEGF family of receptors consists of three protein-tyrosine kinases. Now, the most conventional approach for controlling tumor angiogenesis is blockade of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway. The results of preclinical studies, substantial therapeutic effects of VEGF blockers have been stated in various types of human cancers, even in progressive or recurrent cancer cases.
Alpha-toxin, the major cytolysin of Staphylococcus aureus, preferentially attacks human platelets and cultured monocytes, thereby promoting coagulation and the release of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor. Titers of naturally occurring antibodies in human blood are not high enough to substantially inhibit these pathological reactions. In the present study, F(ab')2 fragment preparations from hyperimmune globulin obtained from immunized volunteers were tested for their capacity to inhibit the cytotoxic action of alpha-toxin in vitro and in vivo. These antibody preparations exhibited neutralizing anti-alpha-toxin titers of 80 to 120 IU/ml, whereas titers in commercial immunoglobulin preparations were 1 to 4 IU/ml. In vitro, the presence of 2 to 4 mg of hyperimmune globulin per ml protected human platelets against the action of 1 to 2 micrograms of alpha-toxin per ml. Similarly, these antibodies fully protected human monocytes against the ATP-depleting and cytokine-liberating effects of 0.1 to 1 microgram of alpha-toxin per ml. Intravenous application of 0.5 mg (85 to 120 micrograms/kg of body weight) of alpha-toxin in cynomolgus monkeys elicited acute pathophysiological reactions which were heralded by a selective drop in blood platelet counts. Toxin doses of 1 to 2 mg (170 to 425 micrograms/kg) had a rapid lethal effect, the animals presenting with signs of cardiovascular collapse and pulmonary edema. Prior intravenous application of 4 ml of hyperimmune globulins per kg inhibited the systemic toxic and lethal effects of 1 mg (200 micrograms/kg) of alpha-toxin. In contrast, normal human immunoglobulins exhibited no substantial protective efficacy in vitro and only marginal effects in vivo. It is concluded that high-titered anti-alpha-toxin antibodies effectively protect against the cytotoxic actions of alpha-toxin.
As we enter the 21st century, we face a world that will be increasingly dominated by science and technology. More and more jobs will require many of the analytical and thinking skills of a scientist. Citizens everywhere must also become better able to evaluate and understand the judgements of scientific and technical experts when making personal and community decisions. To spread the values and knowledge of science much more widely throughout our societies, we must also spread scientists. Therefore, advanced training in science and the acquisition of important skills through an extensive exposure to research are valuable tools for a wide variety of occupations.
RATIONALE: Fibroblast growth factor homologous factors (FHFs), a subfamily of fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) that are incapable of functioning as growth factors, are intracellular modulators of Na(+) channels and have been linked to neurodegenerative diseases. Although certain FHFs have been found in embryonic heart, they have not been reported in adult heart, and they have not been shown to regulate endogenous cardiac Na(+) channels or to participate in cardiac pathophysiology. OBJECTIVE: We tested whether FHFs regulate Na(+) channels in murine heart. METHODS AND RESULTS: We demonstrated that isoforms of FGF13 are the predominant FHFs in adult mouse ventricular myocytes. FGF13 binds directly to, and colocalizes with, the Na(V)1.5 Na(+) channel in the sarcolemma of adult mouse ventricular myocytes. Knockdown of FGF13 in adult mouse ventricular myocytes revealed a loss of function of Na(V)1.5-reduced Na(+) current density, decreased Na(+) channel availability, and slowed Na(V)1.5-reduced Na(+) current recovery from inactivation. Cell surface biotinylation experiments showed approximately 45% reduction in Na(V)1.5 protein at the sarcolemma after FGF13 knockdown, whereas no changes in whole-cell Na(V)1.5 protein or in mRNA level were observed. Optical imaging in neonatal rat ventricular myocyte monolayers demonstrated slowed conduction velocity and a reduced maximum capture rate after FGF13 knockdown. CONCLUSION: These findings show that FHFs are potent regulators of Na(+) channels in adult ventricular myocytes and suggest that loss-of-function mutations in FHFs may underlie a similar set of cardiac arrhythmias and cardiomyopathies that result from Na(V)1.5 loss-of-function mutations.
The case of an 18-yr-old otherwise healthy adult with retropharyngeal abscess (RPA) presenting with sore throat and syncope is reported. The case illustrates that sore throat with symptoms out of proportion to oropharyngeal findings should prompt a search for pathology other than simple pharyngitis. A literature search for case reports of RPA in adults was done to derive characterizations about this disease. Adult RPA patients present with sore throat, dysphagia, neck pain and, less commonly, stridor. Adult RPA occurs as a complication of procedures or blunt trauma to the neck, or spread of infection from an adjacent focus. The incidence of underlying disease causing immunosuppression is high. RPA in adults without history of preceding trauma or coexistent illness is unusual.
WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Polystyrene sulfonate and sevelamer are binding resins that are used in the treatment of, respectively, hyperkalemia and hyperphosphatemia. It is unknown whether these resins interact with the antipsychotic quetiapine. CASE SUMMARY: We report on a woman with unexplainable low serum quetiapine concentrations who also used the binding resins polystyrene sulfonate and sevelamer. An In vitro binding assay showed binding of quetiapine by these resins. Separation of the ingestion times of quetiapine and the binding resins resulted in increased serum levels in this patient. WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Polystyrene sulfonate and sevelamer are able to bind quetiapine. Healthcare professionals should be aware of this potential drug-drug interaction as this could lead to antipsychotic treatment failure.
Myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS), a major substrate of activated protein kinase C (PKC), is thought to be involved in PKC-mediated signal transduction events. In the present study, we have examined the expression of MARCKS in primary cultures of rat glial cells. Western blot analysis of different glial cell types (i.e., astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia) revealed a relatively high level of MARCKS protein in oligodendrocytes. MARCKS protein and MARCKS mRNA levels in oligodendrocytes increased with time in culture, indicating a developmental regulation in MARCKS gene expression in differentiating oligodendrocytes. Immunocytochemical examination of developing oligodendrocytes indicated a strong labeling of MARCKS distributed both in the cell body and in the lacy network of processes. These findings, in concert with our previous observations on the role of PKC in oligodendrogenesis, strongly implicate a PKC-signaling system in oligodendrocyte development.
Efficient catalysis of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is of central importance to function in fuel cells. Metalloproteins, such as laccase (Cu) or cytochrome c oxidase (Cu/Fe-heme) carry out the 4H(+)/4e(-) reduction quite efficiently, but using large, complex protein frameworks. Smaller heme proteins also can carry out ORR, but less efficiently. To gain greater insight into features that promote efficient ORR, we expressed, characterized, and investigated the electrochemical behavior of six new mutants of cytochrome c552 from Thermus thermophilus: V49S/M69A, V49T/M69A, L29D/V49S/M69A, P27A/P28A/L29D/V49S/M69A, and P27A/P28A/L29D/V49T/M69A. Mutation to V49 causes only minor shifts to Fe(III/II) reduction potentials (E degrees '), but introduction of Ser provides a hydrogen bond donor that slightly enhances oxygen reduction activity. Mutation of L29 to D induces small shifts in heme optical spectra, but not to E degrees ' (within experimental error). Replacement of P27 and P28 with A in both positions induces a -50 mV shift in E degrees ', again with small changes to the optical spectra. Both the optical spectra and reduction potentials have signatures consistent with peroxidase enzymes. The V49S and V49T mutations have the largest impact of ORR catalysis, suggesting that increased electron density at the Fe site does not improve O2 reduction chemistry.
BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that serum IL-10, IFNgamma and MIF are elevated in patients in severe dengue (SD) and could be used as potential biomarkers. We proceeded to determine if these cytokines could be used as biomarkers in a large cohort of adult dengue patients with varying severity of dengue infection. METHODS: Serum IL-10 levels were determined in 259 of whom 40 had severe dengue infection. Serum IFNgamma and IFNalpha levels were done in 78 and MIF levels were done in 65 patients with acute dengue infection. Clinical features and laboratory investigations were undertaken during the febrile and critical phase. RESULTS: We found that serum IL-10 levels were significantly higher (p = 0.001) in patients with SD, when compared to those with non SD. Serum IL-10 levels significantly and inversely correlated with white cell counts (R = -0.23, p = 0.0002) and lymphocyte counts (R = -0.29, p < 0.0001) but significantly and positively correlated with aspartate tranaminase levels (R = 0.16, p = 0.01) and alanine transaminase levels (R = 0.22, p = 0.007). However, IL-10 levels did not have a good predictive value in discriminating those who were likely to develop SD (AUC = 0.66). Serum IFNgamma levels were also significantly higher (p = 0.04) in patients with SD when compared to non SD. There was no difference (p = 0.34) in serum IFNalpha levels and serum MIF levels (p = 0.15) in patients with SD and non SD. CONCLUSION: Although serum IL-10 was significantly elevated in patients with SD it had a poor discriminatory value in identifying those with SD and non SD and therefore, is unsuitable to be used as a robust biomarker in this cohort.
Several case-control studies have investigated whether Y chromosome haplogroups or deletions are associated with spermatogenic failure. However, the relationships between Y chromosome haplogroups or deletions and semen quality in general population have not been elucidated. In this study, we assessed relationships between Y chromosome haplogroups or deletions and semen parameters in 791 fertile Japanese men and 1221 young men from the general Japanese population. We found that the haplogroup D2 (M55 lineage) was significantly associated with lower semen parameters, especially total motile sperm count (P = 0.00051, beta = -0.097), in men from the general population but not in fertile men. In addition, we found that the gr/gr subdeletion was associated with semen quality and in particular, strongly associated with decreased sperm motility (P = 0.00041, beta = -3.14) and total motile sperm count (P = 0.00031, beta = -0.099) in men from the general population but not in fertile men. The combined analysis of fertile Japanese men and men from the general Japanese population showed that the haplogroup D2 (M55 lineage) and the gr/gr subdeletion were strongly associated with reduced sperm motility (P = 0.00056, beta = -2.71, and P = 7.7 x 10(-5), beta = -3.05, respectively) and that haplogroup O2b1 was strongly associated with elevated sperm motility (P = 0.00089, beta = 2.94). These observations add further support for the view that the gr/gr subdeletion diminishes sperm motility that consequently may result in male infertility.
AIMS: This study evaluated the relationship between Campylobacter susceptibility and enteric fluoroquinolone concentrations in chickens treated with different doses of enrofloxacin. METHODS AND RESULTS: All chickens were challenged with seven fluoroquinolone sensitive Campylobacter jejuni (6.6 x 10(6) CFU per bird) at 2 weeks posthatch. At 26 days of age chickens were treated with 0 (n = 29 birds), 25 mg ml(-1) enrofloxacin (Baytril, Bayer Corp., Shawnee Mission, KS, USA) for 3 days (n = 45 birds) or 50 mg ml(-1) enrofloxacin for 7 days (n = 65 birds) in the drinking water. The crop, upper ileum, lower ileum, ceca and colon contents were collected from both enrofloxacin treatment groups (n = 5 birds per day per treatment group) and nonmedicated controls. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of ciprofloxacin for Campylobacter increased for isolates from both treatment groups within the first day of dosing and the daily average ranged from 1.4 to 6.5 microg ml(-1) throughout the study. Although enteric fluoroquinolone concentrations were higher (P < 0.05) in birds dosed with 50 mg ml(-1)vs 25 mg ml(-1) enrofloxacin, there were no differences between the isolates collected from these groups for MIC values. CONCLUSION: These data indicate, for the doses used, differences in gut fluoroquinolone concentrations do not produce isolates of Campylobacter with differing susceptibility to ciprofloxacin. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Using the manufacturers lowest, shortest duration dose vs the highest, longest duration dose of enrofloxacin did not change Campylobacter susceptibility to ciprofloxacin. However, ciprofloxacin MIC values for Campylobacter determined in this study were lower than previously reported.
The hybridization assay using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is useful for rapid detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis). A 77-year-old female was admitted to our hospital complaining of cough, and examination of the sputum culture showed M. tuberculosis. Her chest X-ray showed a variety of abnormal shadows, such as a cavity lesion, multiple coin lesions, and infiltrates. Malignant disease was also suspected to be involved, with the complication of pulmonary tuberculosis. Specimens were obtained by transbronchial lung biopsy (TBLB) from coin lesions. The hybridization assay using PCR on the TBLB specimens showed M. tuberculosis gene expression. She was treated with anti-tuberculous drugs. All shadows in her chest X-ray were improved six months after admission. She was remained well without recurrence for more than two years after admission. The hybridization assay using PCR with TBLB specimens is useful for the detection of M. tuberculosis.
Murine 2B4 (CD244) is a cell surface receptor expressed on all NK cells, gammadelta-T cells, a subset of CD8(+) T cells, and all CD14(+) monocytes. 2B4 binds to CD48 with high affinity, and cross-linking 2B4 with anti-2B4 Ab in vitro causes activation of NK cells. To study its physiological role, we have generated, by gene targeting, mice deficient in the expression of this cell surface molecule. The expression of lymphoid cell surface markers on PBMC and splenocytes of mice homozygous for the mutation in 2B4 (2B4(-/-)) is identical to that in wild-type mice. However, thymocytes from female 2B4(-/-) mice, but not male 2B4(-/-) mice, have an increase in the immature CD4(-)/CD8(-) population. To investigate the in vivo role of 2B4, wild-type and 2B4(-/-) mice were injected with CD48(+) and CD48(-) metastatic B16 melanoma cells. Wild-type mice rejected CD48(+) melanoma poorly compared with CD48(-) tumor cells, suggesting that ligation of 2B4 by CD48 on melanoma cells is inhibitory. In keeping with this, male 2B4(-/-) mice showed enhanced ability to reject CD48(+) melanoma cells. However, female 2B4(-/-) mice poorly rejected both CD48(+) and CD48(-) melanoma cells, revealing a gender-specific and CD48-independent defect in mice lacking 2B4. In vitro and in vivo experiments reveal a complex role of NK cells in gender specificity.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The hip of Rosa multiflora Thunb. (HRM) has been traditionally used as a dietary supplement and a herbal remedy for the treatment of various diseases, including inflammation, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and chronic pain, in China. The current study was to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of the petroleum ether extractive of HRM (PEE) on type II collagen-induced rheumatoid arthritis (CIA) in male Wistar rats. In addition, the anti-inflammatory mechanism(s) of PEE on type II CIA was explored. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) was induced by intradermal injection of bovine type II collagen on Day 1 and Day 8. Starting from Day 13, normal rats were treated with vehicle (serving as the control group); the CIA rats were treated with vehicle (CIA group), dexamethasone (0.25mg/kg bw per day, p.o.) (a positive control), lei-gong-teng (LGT: 10mg/kg bw per day, p.o.) (a clinically used Chinese patent medicine in RA therapy) or PEE (12, 36 or 120mg/kg bw per day, p.o.) for 28 days. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: PEE (120mg/kg bw per day) efficiently attenuated the severity of arthritis in the CIA rats by reducing the mean arthritis severity scores and the fore/hind paw swelling as well as reduced histological changes by decreasing the cartilage surface erosion and cartilage proteoglan depletion. PEEs therapeutic effect in RA may involve the inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6, in serum and/or the elevation of the activities of hepatic anti-oxidative enzymes including SOD, CAT and GSH-Px. However, the detailed anti-inflammatory mechanism, the main effective components and the interaction between different ingredients in PEE are still not clear and require more studies.
Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative intracellular bacterium that is able to escape phagocytic vesicles and replicate in the cytoplasm of infected cells. As with viral vectors, this intracytoplasmic life cycle provides a means for introducing foreign proteins into the major histocompatibility complex class I pathway of antigen presentation. Using recombinant L. monocytogenes (rLM) strains expressing the full-length nucleoprotein (NP) or a single cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) epitope from lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), we analyzed antiviral CTL responses induced by rLM vaccination. After vaccination, rLM was cleared from the host within 7 days while inducing an LCMV-specific ex vivo CD8+ effector CTL response. Virus-specific CTL memory was maintained for 6 months postvaccination, as demonstrated by vigorous secondary CTL responses after in vitro stimulation. A single immunization with rLM that expressed either the full-length NP gene or the CTL epitope alone resulted in LCMV NP-specific CTL precursor frequencies of approximately 1/10(4) CD8+ T cells. A second rLM vaccination resulted in enhanced virus-specific CTL activity and in vitro proliferation. rLM-vaccinated mice were protected against chronic viral infection by an accelerated virus-specific memory CTL response. These mice cleared infectious virus as well as viral antigen, suggesting that sterilizing immunity was achieved. In contrast to mice that received wild-type LM, rLM-vaccinated mice were protected from virally induced immunosuppression and splenic atrophy associated with chronic LCMV infection. The ability to elicit long-term cell-mediated immunity is fundamental in designing vaccines against intracellular pathogens, and these results demonstrate the efficacy of recombinant LM vaccination for inducing protective antiviral CTL memory.
Genetic exchange by recombination, or reassortment of genomic segments, has been shown to be an important process in RNA virus evolution, resulting often in important phenotypic changes affecting host range and virulence. However, data from numerous systems indicate that reassortant or recombinant genotypes could be selected against in virus populations and suggest that there is coadaptation among viral genes. Little is known about the factors affecting the frequency of reassortants and recombinants along the virus life cycle. We have explored this issue by estimating the frequency of reassortant and recombinant genotypes in experimental populations of Cucumber mosaic virus derived from mixed infections with four different pairs of isolates that differed in about 12% of their nucleotide sequence. Genetic composition of progeny populations were analyzed at various steps of the virus life cycle during host colonization: infection of leaf cells, cell-to-cell movement within the inoculated leaf, encapsidation of progeny genomes, and systemic movement to upper noninoculated leaves. Results indicated that reassortant frequencies do not correspond to random expectations and that selection operates against reassortant genotypes. The intensity of selection, estimated through the use of log-linear models, increased as host colonization progressed. No recombinant was detected in any progeny. Hence, results showed the existence of constraints to genetic exchange linked to various steps of the virus life cycle, so that genotypes with heterologous gene combinations were less fit and disappeared from the population. These results contribute to explain the low frequency of recombinants and reassortants in natural populations of many viruses, in spite of high rates of genetic exchange. More generally, the present work supports the hypothesis of coadaptation of gene complexes within the viral genomes.
AIMS: Excess salt intake during pregnancy may alter fetal organ structures and functions leading to increased risks in the development of cardiovascular diseases in later life. The present study determined whether and how the prenatal high-salt (HS) diets affect renin-angiotensin system (RAS) that may mediate cardiac cell death. METHODS AND RESULTS: Angiotensin II receptors, AT1 and AT2, protein expression was increased in the myocardium of the offspring exposed to prenatal HS; apoptotic cells appeared in the myocardium of the adult offspring. Mitochondrion was isolated in cell experiments, and the data showed cardiomyocyte apoptosis requiring cytochrome C release. Pretreating H9C2 cells with AT2 agonist CGP42112A induced cell apoptosis in DNA fragments and activated caspase 3. CGP42112A increased mitochondrion cytochrome C release and apoptosis in the cells. CONCLUSION: Both in vitro and in vivo study demonstrated that cardiomyocyte apoptosis was related to AT2 activation. Prenatal HS diets may reprogram RAS that mediates apoptosis in the offspring myocardium, and AT2 may contribute to cardiomyocyte apoptosis via the cytochrome C release pathway.
PAP technique and rabbit anti-X serum were used to detect the X protein in tumor and nontumor liver tissues from 34 patients with HCC. The positive rate of the X protein in both tissues were 94.1% and 84.4% respectively. Of the 34 patients with HCC, 27 were complicated by liver cirrhosis, in whom 92.6% were X protein positive in liver cells. It was found that almost all of the liver cells adjacent to the tumor tissue showed strong positive staining. The high frequency and predominant expression of X protein in HCC and liver cirrhosis tissues indicated that X protein may play an important role in hepatocarcinogenesis. X protein was detected in 17.2% of the patients with CAH, which suggested the risk of transformation from CAH to cirrhosis and/or HCC. X protein was first found in bile duct epithelial cells in 59.4% of the patients with HCC, and 6 of 34 HCC were combined with bile duct carcinoma, and some cancer cells were found positive for X protein. It seems that X protein may also be a potential factor in the oncogenesis of bile duct carcinoma.
BACKGROUND: Recent randomized controlled studies have shown improvement in recanalization outcomes when physicians use the latest intra-arterial therapy devices in patients with acute, large-vessel, intracranial occlusions. The goal of this study was to explore how new procedures affected degree of and time to recanalization at a single center over the past 12 years as technology has improved. METHODS: Patients were included in the study if they had a large or medium intracranial vessel occlusion and had undergone intra-arterial therapy for acute stroke during the period 2002-2013. Therapies were categorized as intra-arterial thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (IA tPA), mechanical thrombectomy using 1st-generation devices (Merci and Penumbra), or mechanical thrombectomy using 2nd-generation devices (stent-trievers). Recanalization was defined using a modified Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction (TICI) scale. RESULTS: Primary treatment was IA tPA in 24 (12.4%) patients, 1st-generation devices in 128 (66.0%) patients, and 2nd-generation devices in 42 (21.6%) patients. TICI 2b was achieved in 7 (29.2%) patients treated with IA tPA, in 79 (61.7%) patients treated with 1st-generation devices, and in 38 (90.5%) patients treated with 2nd-generation devices. Compared to patients treated with IA tPA, patients treated with 2nd-generation devices were more likely to reach TICI 2b recanalization (odds ratio, 11.66; 95% CI, 1.56-87.01), and they did so in shorter times. CONCLUSION: Technological advances over 12 years in endovascular stroke treatments significantly improved the chance of and reduced time to achieving TICI 2b recanalization in our community hospital. This shows the importance of adopting new technologies in a rapidly evolving field in order to provide the best-practice standard of care for the people of our region.
Soybean (Glycine max L. Merr.) seedlings were inoculated with Glomus mosseae (GM) and Bradyrhizobium japonicum (BJ) together or separately to study the effect of interactions on net H(+) effluxes of nodules or extraradical hyphae by in vivo vibrating electrode techniques. GM promoted three-fold the H(+) effluxes of nodules on mycorrhizal lateral roots and BJ increased eight-fold the net H(+) effluxes of hyphae developing in the vicinity of nodules on lateral roots. Increments in plant P content were positively and linearly correlated with the net H(+) efflux of nodules and hyphae. It is concluded that increased H(+) effluxes of nodules resulted from enhanced nitrogenase activities induced by the presence of the AM fungus in lateral roots. The results point to additive effects of interactions between mycorrhizal fungi and rhizobia in increasing the extent of acidification of the "nodulesphere" and the hyposphere.
Iatrogenic induction of regional and distant cancer metastases is a risk associated with clinical resection of tumor-positive sentinel lymph nodes. However, there have been no studies of this risk in a mouse model of cancer metastasis. Here, we report that resection of a tumor-bearing subiliac lymph node (SiLN) enhanced lung metastasis in a mouse model of lymph node metastasis. Bioluminescence imaging revealed that metastatic tumor cells in the secondary lymph node continued to grow after resection of the SiLN, and that the probability of metastasis to the lungs was increased when the interval between SiLN inoculation and resection was reduced. Futhermore, histological analysis demonstrated that latents in the lung were stimulated to grow after resection of the SiLN. Fluorescence imaging indicated that the route of tumor cell dissemination from SiLN to the lung was the venous system located over the SiLN. We speculate that our mouse model will be useful for studying the mechanisms of tumor cell latency, with a view to improving the detection and treatment of latent metastases.
The aim of this study is to present molecular, serologic, and clinical findings for dogs that were naturally infected with Anaplasma phagocytophilum or Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (s. l.) in the Czech Republic. This data can provide information relevant to human infection. In total, blood samples from 296 dogs and 118 engorged ticks were examined. Samples were tested for A. phagocytophilum using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification, nested PCR, and direct sequencing of the 16S rDNA, and for B. burgdorferi s. l. using PCR amplification of the 16S rDNA and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the 5S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer. In addition, blood samples were screened for antibodies to these bacteria. Ten (3.4%) dogs were PCR-positive for A. phagocytophilum. Morulae of A. phagocytophilum in granulocytes were found in two of these dogs. Nine of the PCR-positive dogs had clinical signs related to anaplasmosis. Statistically significant differences in the PCR detection rates were found between breeds and between symptomatic and asymptomatic dogs. Infection with Borrelia garinii was detected by PCR in a dog with meningoencephalitis. DNA of A. phagocytophilum and B. burgdorferi s. l. (B. garinii or Borrelia afzelii) was detected in 8.5% and 6.8% of ticks, respectively. Immunoglobulin (Ig) G seropositivity to A. phagocytophilum was 26%. Significant differences were found with respect to breed and gender. IgM and IgG antibodies to B. burgdorferi s. l. were detected in 2.4% and 10.3% of dogs, respectively. Our findings suggest that the exposure to B. burgdorferi s. l. exists in dogs in the Czech Republic, and exposure to A. phagocytophilum is common.
A family 27 carbohydrate-binding module of a Thermotoga maritima beta-mannanase (TmCBM27) was chosen from the carbohydrate-active enzyme database by computer-aided design, possessing the lowest binding free energy with mannopentaose. To improve the enzymatic properties of a glycoside hydrolase family 5 beta-mannanase from Aspergillus usamii (AuMan5A), two fusion beta-mannanases, AuMan5A-F-M and AuMan5A-R-M, were designed by fusing a TmCBM27 into its C-terminus linked with a flexible peptide F (GGGGS)3 and rigid peptide R (EAAAK)3. Two fusion enzyme genes, Auman5A-F-m and Auman5A-R-m, were constructed as designed theoretically by overlapping PCR. Then, Auman5A and two fusion genes were expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115. Three recombinant beta-mannanases, reAuMan5A, reAuMan5A-F-M and reAuMan5A-R-M, were purified to homogeneity with specific activities of 230.6, 153.3 and 241.7 U/mg. The temperature optimum of reAuMan5A-R-M was 70 degrees C, identical with that of reAuMan5A, while its thermostability and melting temperature (Tm) reached 68 degrees C and 74.9 degrees C, being 8.0 degrees C and 8.4 degrees C higher than those of the latter, respectively. Additionally, the Km values of reAuMan5A-R-M, towards locust bean gum, konjac gum and guar gum, significantly decreased to 0.9, 1.9 and 2.5 mg/mL from 1.7, 3.8 and 4.2 mg/mL of reAuMan5A, while its kcat/Km (catalytic efficiency) values increased to 287.8, 163.7 and 84.4 mL/mgs from 171.2, 97.6 and 56.0 mL/mgs of the latter, respectively. These results verified that the fusion of a TmCBM27 into the C-terminus of AuMan5A mediated by (EAAAK)3 linker contributed to its improved thermostability and catalytic efficiency.
A kinetic model of the simultaneous saccharification, protein hydrolysis, and fermentation (SSPHF) process for lactic acid production from wheat flour has been developed. The model describes the bacterial growth, substrate consumption, lactic acid production, and maltose hydrolysis. The model was fitted and validated with data from SSPHF experiments obtained under different dilution rates. The results of the model are in good agreement with the experimental data. Steady state concentrations of biomass, lactic acid, glucose, and maltose as function of the dilution rate were predicted by the model. This steady state analysis is further useful to determine the operating conditions that maximize lactic acid productivity.
In a human challenge experiment, the infectivity of gonococci with sialylated lipooligosaccharide (LOS) was compared with the infectivity of gonococci with unsialylated LOS. Volunteers were intraurethrally inoculated with approximately 5000 sialylated or unsialylated piliated, non-opaque (P+Opa-, transparent) colony type gonococci, strain MS11mkC. Five (83%) of 6 volunteers inoculated with unsialylated gonococci became infected; however, only 1 of 5 volunteers became infected with sialylated gonococci. The unsialylated gonococcal infections, with a median incubation time of 62 h (range, 32-98), were similar to previously described experimental infections. Gonococci shed by infected volunteers showed a transition from the P+Opa- phenotype of the inoculation strain to the P+Opa+ (piliated, opaque) phenotype 12-60 h before onset of disease. The subject with sialylated gonococcus infection had an extended incubation period, showing a progressive increase in the number of organisms shed until he became symptomatic on day 6 after inoculation. These results show that gonococci with sialylated LOS are less infective than gonococci with unsialylated LOS.
Site-directed mutagenesis is of great importance for probing the structure/function relationship of proteins. Developing our previous method (Nagy et al. Anal Biochem 324:301-303, 2004), here we report a multiplex strategy for site-directed mutagenesis using PCR in one tube to introduce a single mutation into three or more genes at the same time. DNA fragments carrying the desired mutation can be distinguished from each other in a standard antibiotic selection step of the transformed bacteria. Due to this strategy the mutagenesis procedure for several genes can be accelerated.
PURPOSE: Prolonged standing at work has been shown to be associated with a number of potentially serious health outcomes, such as lower back and leg pain, cardiovascular problems, fatigue, discomfort, and pregnancy-related health outcomes. Recent studies have been conducted examining the relationship between these health outcomes and the amount of time spent standing while on the job. The purpose of this article was to provide a review of the health risks and interventions for workers and employers that are involved in occupations requiring prolonged standing. A brief review of recommendations by governmental and professional organizations for hours of prolonged standing is also included. FINDINGS: Based on our review of the literature, there seems to be ample evidence showing that prolonged standing at work leads to adverse health outcomes. Review of the literature also supports the conclusion that certain interventions are effective in reducing the hazards associated with prolonged standing. Suggested interventions include the use of floor mats, sit-stand workstations/chairs, shoes, shoe inserts and hosiery or stockings. Studies could be improved by using more precise definitions of prolonged standing (e.g., duration, movement restrictions, and type of work), better measurement of the health outcomes, and more rigorous study protocols. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Use of interventions and following suggested guidelines on hours of standing from governmental and professional organizations should reduce the health risks from prolonged standing.
Cannabinoid compounds may influence both emotional and cognitive processes depending on the level of environmental aversiveness at the time of drug administration. However, the mechanisms responsible for these responses remain to be elucidated. The present experiments investigated the effects induced by the endocannabinoid transport inhibitor AM404 (0.5-5 mg/kg, i.p.) on both emotional and cognitive performances of rats tested in a Spatial Open Field task and subjected to different experimental settings, named High Arousal (HA) and Low Arousal (LA) conditions. The two different experimental conditions influenced emotional reactivity independently of drug administration. Indeed, vehicle-treated rats exposed to the LA condition spent more time in the center of the arena than vehicle-treated rats exposed to the HA context. Conversely, the different arousal conditions did not affect the cognitive performances of vehicle-treated animals such as the capability to discriminate a spatial displacement of the objects or an object substitution. AM404 administration did not alter locomotor activity or emotional behavior of animals exposed to both environmental conditions. Interestingly, AM404 administration influenced the cognitive parameters depending on the level of emotional arousal: it impaired the capability of rats exposed to the HA condition to recognize a novel object while it did not induce any impairing effect in rats exposed to the LA condition. These findings suggest that drugs enhancing endocannabinoid signaling induce different effects on recognition memory performance depending on the level of emotional arousal induced by the environmental conditions.
Agroinfiltration was used to express transiently cre recombinase from bacteriophage P1 in planta. Activation of gfp expression after cre-mediated excision of a bar intervening sequence served as a marker to monitor site-specific recombination events in lox-target N. benthamiana plants. Gfp expressing regenerants from A. tumefaciens infiltrated leaves were obtained with an efficiency of about 34%. In 20% of the regenerants bar gene excision was due to the expression of stably integrated cre gene, whereas in 14% of plants site-specific recombination was a consequence of transient cre expression. Phenotypic and molecular data indicated that the recombined state has been transferred to the T(1 )generation. These results demonstrate the suitability of agroinfiltration for the expression of cre recombinase in vivo.
We introduce a new composite scaffold of gelatin and polymethyl vinyl ether-alt-maleic anhydride (PMVE/MA) for expansion of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in an in vitro environment. To optimize the scaffold, we prepared a gelatin scaffold (G) and three composite scaffolds namely GP-1, GP-2, and GP-3 with varying PMVE/MA concentrations (0.2-1%) and characterized them by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), swelling study, compression testing and FTIR. SEM micrographs revealed interconnected porous structure in all the scaffolds. The permissible hemolysis ratio and activation of platelets by scaffolds confirmed the hemocompatibility of scaffolds. Initial biocompatibility assessment of scaffolds was conducted using hepatocarcinoma (Hep G2) cells and adhesion, proliferation and infiltration of Hep G2 cells in depth of scaffolds were observed, proving the scaffold's biocompatibility. Further Oct4B2 mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), which harbor a green fluorescence protein transgene under regulatory control of the Oct4 promotor, were examined for expansion on scaffolds with MTT assay. The GP-2 scaffold demonstrated the best cell proliferation and was further explored for ESC adherence and infiltration in depth (SEM and confocal), and pluripotent state of mESCs was assessed with the expression of Oct4-GFP and stage-specific embryonic antigen-1 (SSEA-1). This study reports the first demonstration of biocompatibility of gelatin-PMVE/MA composite scaffold and presents this scaffold as a promising candidate for embryonic stem cell based tissue engineering.
Isoprenoids are synthesized by consecutive condensations of their five-carbon precursor, isopentenyl diphosphate, to its isomer, dimethylallyl diphosphate. Two pathways for these precursors are known. One is the mevalonate pathway, which operates in eucaryotes, archaebacteria, and cytosols of higher plants. The other is a recently discovered pathway, the nonmevalonate pathway, which is used by many eubacteria, green algae, and chloroplasts of higher plants. To date, five reaction steps in this new pathway and their corresponding enzymes have been identified. EC numbers of these enzymes have been assigned by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (NC-IUBMB) and are available at http://www.chem.qmw.ac.uk/iubmb/enzyme/reaction/terp/nonMVA.html.
Two heptad repeat regions (HR1, HR2) from F clone of the virulent and avirulent NDV were cloned, expressed with vector pGEX-6p-1 in E. coli BL21 (DE3), and purified the fusion protein by Glutathiones Sepharose 4B Column. After cleaved by precission protease, the desired protein was purified by Glutathione Sepharose 4B Column and high temperature. Purified HR1 and HR2 were analyzed by Mass spectrum, the results shows that the Molecular Weights of HR1 and HR2 of virulent NDV are 7103 and 6301, and the Molecular Weights of HR1 and HR2 of avirulent NDV is 7107 and 6309.
The increasing prevalence of extrapulmonary tuberculosis means that it is important for clinicians to review their knowledge of unusual presentations of mycobacterial infections. Involvement of subcutaneous tissue and skeletal muscle is rare in tuberculosis. Occasionally, infection of soft tissue may be the sole manifestation of tuberculosis. Apart from cases of tuberculous lymphadenitis, the diagnosis of extrapulmonary tuberculosis may be difficult. Modern imaging techniques, such as magnetic resonance imaging, may be helpful in making a differential diagnosis. We present here a case of tuberculous cellulitis in an immunocompetent child and discuss the contribution of MRI in diagnosis.
After identifying the interaction between the transcriptional coactivator lens epithelium-derived growth factor (LEDGF/p75) and the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) integrase (IN), we have now investigated the role of LEDGF/p75 during HIV replication. Transient small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of LEDGF/p75 in HeLaP4 cells resulted in a three- to fivefold inhibition of HIV-1 (strain NL4.3) replication. Quantitative PCR was used to pinpoint the replication block to the integration step. Next, polyclonal and monoclonal HeLaP4-derived cell lines were selected with a stable knockdown of LEDGF/p75 mediated by a lentiviral vector (lentivector) encoding a short hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting this protein. Cell lines stably transduced with a lentivector encoding an unrelated hairpin or a double-mismatch hairpin served as controls. Again, a two- to fourfold reduction of HIV-1 replication was observed. The extent of LEDGF/p75 knockdown closely correlated with the reduction of HIV-1 replication. After the back-complementation of LEDGF/p75 in the poly- and monoclonal knockdown cell lines using an shRNA-resistant expression plasmid, viral replication was restored to nearly wild-type levels. The Q168A mutation in integrase has been shown to interfere with the interaction with LEDGF/p75 without reducing the enzymatic activity. Transduction by HIV-1-derived lentivectors carrying the Q168A IN mutant was severely hampered, pointing again to a requirement for LEDGF/p75. Altogether, our data validate LEDGF/p75 as an important cellular cofactor for HIV integration and as a potential target for antiviral drug development.
Somatic Embryogenesis Receptor-Like Kinases (SERKs) belong to the LRR-RLK II subfamily, which contain three conserved domains: an extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular catalytic kinase domain. Previous studies had found that SERKs play many roles during plant development. This review made a brief introduction about the character of the SERKs and described the biological function of these proteins in somatic embryogenesis, sporogenesis, hormone response and host defense response. The research value and the application prospects of the SERKs were discussed.
Cell movement in the amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum has been examined in media differing in monovalent cation concentration (i.e. Na+ and K+). Under isotonic or even slightly hypertonic conditions, the cells move equally well in solutions in which either potassium or sodium ions dominate. However, in strongly hypertonic solutions the amoebae showed motility in a 2% potassium chloride solution, but remained motionless in a hypertonic 2% sodium chloride solution. This inhibition of D. discoideum amoebae movement in a hypertonic sodium chloride solution was fully reversible. Such behaviour corresponds to that of plant, fungi, and some invertebrate animal cells rather than protozoan or vertebrate cells. These observations suggest that studies using D. discoideum as a model for cell motility in vertebrate animal tissue cells should be considered with caution, and would seem to confirm the classification of cellular slime moulds as related rather to Fungi than to Protista. This also shows that the cell membrane models should consider the asymmetry in sodium/potassium ion concentrations found in vertebrate animal cells as one of various possibilities.
Plant peroxidases are one of the most extensively studied group of enzymes which find applications in the environment, health, pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnological processes. Class III secretary peroxidase from alfalfa (Medicago sativa) has been characterized using bioinformatics approach Physiochemical properties and topology of alfalfa peroxidase were compared with that of soybean and horseradish peroxidase, two most popular commercially available peroxidase preparations. Lower value of instability index as predicted by ProtParam and presence of extra disulphide linkages as predicted by Cys_REC suggested alfalfa peroxidase to be more stable than either of the commercial preparations. Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA) with other functionally similar proteins revealed the presence of highly conserved catalytic residues. Three dimensional model of alfalfa peroxidase was constructed based on the crystal structure of soybean peroxidase (PDB Id: 1FHF A) by homology modelling approach. The model was checked for stereo chemical quality by PROCHECH, VERIFY 3D, WHAT IF, ERRAT, 3D MATCH AND ProSA servers. The best model was selected, energy minimized and used to analyze structure function relationship with substrate hydrogen peroxide by Autodock 4.0. The enzyme substrate complex was viewed with Swiss PDB viewer and one residue ASP43 was found to stabilize the interaction by hydrogen bonds. The results of the study may be a guiding point for further investigations on alfalfa peroxidase.
CONTEXT: High-density lipoproteins (HDLs) from type 2 diabetic patients are unable to counteract the inhibitory effect of oxidized low-density lipoproteins (ox-LDLs) on vasorelaxation. We hypothesized that glitazones, which improve glycemic control and dyslipidemia, could correct this abnormality. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN: We compared the ability of HDL from controls (n = 12) and from type 2 diabetic patients before and after 6 months of treatment with either rosiglitazone (n = 11) or pioglitazone (n = 8) to counteract the inhibitory effect of ox-LDL on vasodilatation of rabbit aorta rings. RESULTS: Rosiglitazone induced a decrease in hemoglobin A1c (7.7% +/- 1.1% vs 9.8% +/- 1.0%, P = .003) and an increase in HDL cholesterol (1.14 +/- 0.32 vs 0.98 +/- 0.24 mmol/L, P = .033). Pioglitazone induced a decrease in hemoglobin A1c (8.3% +/- 2.5% vs 9.5% +/- 3.2%, P = .068) and serum triglycerides (1.58 +/- 0.89 vs 2.03 +/- 0.70 mmol/L, P = .069) and an increase in HDL cholesterol (1.39 +/- 0.22 vs 1.14 +/- 0.22 mmol/L, P = .018). The triglyceride content of HDL was unchanged by rosiglitazone and was decreased by 25% (P = .068) by pioglitazone. HDL from controls counteracted the inhibitory effect of ox-LDL on vasodilatation (maximal relaxation [Emax] = 74.4% +/- 3.5% vs 51.9% +/- 3.3%, P = .0029), whereas HDL from type 2 diabetic patients did not (Emax = 51.7% +/- 5.8% vs 52.3% +/- 4.6% [P = .66] and 52.7% +/- 5.5% vs 51.9% +/- 4.5% [P = .78] for the rosiglitazone and pioglitazone group, respectively). Rosiglitazone or pioglitazone did not improve Emax (58.6% +/- 5.9% vs 52.3% +/- 4.6% [P = .15] and 49.3% +/- 6.5% vs 51.9% +/- 4.5% [P = .48], respectively). CONCLUSION: Glitazones increased the concentration of HDL cholesterol without restoring the ability of HDL particles to protect the endothelium from oxidative stress-induced dysfunction, meaning that HDL remained dysfunctional with impaired antiatherogenic properties.
Pushing and pulling are common tasks in the workplace. Overexertion injuries related to manual pushing and pulling are often observed, and therefore the understanding of work capacity is important for efficient and safe workstation design. The purpose of the present study was to describe workloads obtained during different reach envelopes during a seated push-pull task. Forty-five women performed an isokinetic push-pull sequence at two velocities. Strength, work and agonist/antagonist muscle ratio were calculated for the full range of motion (ROM). We then divided the ROM into three reach envelopes - neutral, medium, and maximum reach. The work capacity for each direction was determined and the reach envelope work data were compared. Push capability was best at medium reach envelope and pulling was best at maximum reach envelope. Push/pull strength ratio was approximately 1. A recommendation was made to avoid strenuous push-pull tasks at neutral reach envelopes.
The African Penguin population has drastically declined over the last 100 years. Changes in food availability due to over-fishing and other oceanographic changes seem to be major causes. However, it has also been 30 years since organic pollutants as a potential factor have been assessed. We analysed penguin eggs collected in 2011 and 2012 from two breeding colonies 640 km apart: Robben Island near Cape Town on the Atlantic Ocean coast, and Bird Island near Port Elizabeth on the Indian Ocean coast of South Africa. We quantified organochlorine pesticides, brominated flame retardants, and perfluorinated compounds (PFCs). Compared to 30 years ago, concentrations of SigmaDDT have remained about the same or slightly lower, while SigmaPCBs declined almost four-fold. The use of DDT in malaria control is unlikely to have contributed. PFCs were detected in all eggs. Indications (non-significant) of eggshell thinning associated with SigmaDDT and SigmaPCB was found. It seems therefore that the concentrations of measured organic pollutants the African Penguin eggs are not contributing directly to its current demise, but concerns remain about thinner shells and desiccation. Effects of combinations of compounds and newer compounds cannot be excluded, as well as more subtle effects on reproduction, development, and behaviour.
Chloroplast DNA sequences were obtained from 331 Asplenium ceterach plants representing 143 populations from throughout the range of the complex in Europe, plus outlying sites in North Africa and the near East. We identified nine distinct haplotypes from a 900 bp fragment of trnL-trnF gene. Tetraploid populations were encountered throughout Europe and further afield, whereas diploid populations were scarcer and predominated in the Pannonian-Balkan region. Hexaploids were encountered only in southern Mediterranean populations. Four haplotypes were found among diploid populations of the Pannonian-Balkans indicating that this region formed a northern Pleistocene refugium. A separate polyploid complex centred on Greece, comprises diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid populations with two endemic haplotypes and suggests long-term persistence of populations in the southern Mediterranean. Three chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) haplotypes were common among tetraploids in Spain and Italy, with diversity reducing northwards suggesting expansion from the south after the Pleistocene. Our cpDNA and ploidy data indicate at least six independent origins of polyploids.
Co-trimoxazole is infrequently prescribed in the UK due to concerns regarding adverse events. However, it has a low association with Clostridium difficile-associated disease (CDAD) and may represent an alternative to higher-risk agents. This retrospective study examines the efficacy and safety of intravenous co-trimoxazole in treatment of bacterial infection in a UK inpatient population of 50 inpatients. Outcome was determined to be successful in 58% of treatment episodes; in hospital-acquired pneumonia the response rate was 52%. Two treatment episodes were terminated due to adverse events: these resolved on discontinuation of co-trimoxazole. No significant change in renal function, evaluated by serum creatinine, was observed during therapy; blood platelet count was not affected by treatment with intravenous co-trimoxazole. One patient developed CDAD within one month of cessation of therapy. Intravenous co-trimoxazole was clinically effective with a low rate of adverse events and may represent a useful alternative antimicrobial agent in UK institutions with high rates of CDAD.
We have determined solution structures of the N-terminal half domain (N-domain) of yeast calmodulin (YCM0-N, residues 1-77) in the apo and Ca(2+)-saturated forms by NMR spectroscopy. The Ca(2+)-binding sites of YCM0-N consist of a pair of helix-loop-helix motifs (EF-hands), in which the loops are linked by a short beta-sheet. The binding of two Ca(2+) causes large rearrangement of the four alpha-helices and exposes the hydrophobic surface as observed for vertebrate calmodulin (CaM). Within the observed overall conformational similarity in the peptide backbone, several significant conformational differences were observed between the two proteins, which originated from the 38% disagreement in amino acid sequences. The beta-sheet in apo YCM0-N is strongly twisted compared with that in the N-domain of CaM, while it turns to the normal more stable conformation on Ca(2+) binding. YCM0-N shows higher cooperativity in Ca(2+) binding than the N-domain of CaM, and the observed conformational change of the beta-sheet is a possible cause of the highly cooperative Ca(2+) binding. The hydrophobic surface on Ca(2+)-saturated YCM0-N appears less flexible due to the replacements of Met51, Met71, and Val55 in the hydrophobic surface of CaM with Leu51, Leu71, and Ile55, which is thought to be one of reasons for the poor activation of target enzymes by yeast CaM.
Correlation between cortical activity and electromyographic (EMG) activity of limb muscles has long been a subject of neurophysiological studies, especially in terms of corticospinal connectivity. Interest in this issue has recently increased due to the development of brain-machine interfaces with output signals that mimic muscle force. For this study, three monkeys were implanted with multielectrode arrays in multiple cortical areas. One monkey performed self-timed touch pad presses, whereas the other two executed arm reaching movements. We analyzed the dynamic relationship between cortical neuronal activity and arm EMGs using a joint cross-correlation (JCC) analysis that evaluated trial-by-trial correlation as a function of time intervals within a trial. JCCs revealed transient correlations between the EMGs of multiple muscles and neural activity in motor, premotor and somatosensory cortical areas. Matching results were obtained using spike-triggered averages corrected by subtracting trial-shuffled data. Compared with spike-triggered averages, JCCs more readily revealed dynamic changes in cortico-EMG correlations. JCCs showed that correlation peaks often sharpened around movement times and broadened during delay intervals. Furthermore, JCC patterns were directionally selective for the arm-reaching task. We propose that such highly dynamic, task-dependent and distributed relationships between cortical activity and EMGs should be taken into consideration for future brain-machine interfaces that generate EMG-like signals.
Despite the importance of larval biology in the life histories of many marine animals, relatively little information exists on the dynamics and genetic composition of larval cohorts. The supply of megalopae larvae of the shore crab, Carcinus maenas, was measured on a daily basis during 8 months spread along two larval periods (2006 and 2007) at the Ria de Aveiro estuary, on the Portuguese northwest coast. A total of 10 microsatellite DNA loci were employed to explore the genetic structure, variability and relatedness of temporally distinct megalopal events, selected from the major pulses of supply. Larval variation was also compared genetically with that of a previously studied adult crabs sample, at the same loci, collected in 2006 and 2007 along the Iberian Peninsula. Results revealed a lack of genetic differentiation and identical diversity levels among larval events over time. No evidence of reduced genetic diversity between megalopae relative to the diversity assessed from the pooled sample of adults was found. Moreover, there was no evidence of any family relatedness among larvae from temporal events. The results obtained for C. maenas contradict predictions made by the sweepstakes reproduction hypothesis, in which large variance in reproductive success is expected, which is presumably detectable as sharp genetic discontinuities among separate larval events. Data here indicate conversely a high degree of temporal genetic stability among larval supply to a given estuary under variable oceanographic conditions, consistent with the hypothesis that sampled larvae were drawn from a large number of adults that do not differ in reproductive success.
Black flies (Simuliidae) are considered to be pests in rural and in some urban areas in the south of Brazil due to the bites of females. Little information exists on the factors that contribute to Simuliidae distribution in these areas. We sampled 39 streams in the state of Rio Grande do Sul in September 2004 to address ecological aspects. Of the 18 species collected, those that occurred in more than 50% of the streams were: Simulium subnigrum Lutz 1910, Simulium pertinax Kollar 1882, Simulium subpallidum Lutz 1910 and Simulium incrustatum Lutz 1910. Species richness was not influenced by any of the environmental or geographical variables considered, and there was no pattern of species co-occurrence, corroborating the hypothesis of a stochastic distribution of the Simuliidae assemblage. When analyzed individually, only three of seven species with occurrence frequency >30% were related to any of the variables measured. The probabilities of occurrence of Simulium jujuyense Paterson & Shannon 1927 and S. pertinax were higher in streams with high values of water pH and electrical conductivity, whereas the opposite was observed for S. incrustatum. Therefore, due to stochastic distribution, the population studies of Simuliidae are more suitable for predicting the occurrence of species in rural areas than are studies of assemblages.
We investigated the effects of tranilast on inducible cyclooxygenase (COX2)-mediated prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production and enzyme induction in interleukin-lbeta (IL-1beta)-stimulated cultured dermal fibroblasts. IL-1beta enhanced PGE2 production in cultured fibroblasts. Tranilast did not affect constitutive cyclooxygenase (COX1) or COX2 activity in non-stimulated or IL-lbeta-stimulated fibroblasts. However, the COX2 expression induced by IL-1beta was inhibited by tranilast. This result, that IL-1beta-induced COX2 expression was suppressed by tranilast, was confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis. Thus, it is possible for tranilast to regulate PGE2 production by inhibiting COX2 induction.
Cell surface engineering using polymers is a promising approach to address unmet needs and adverse immune reactions in the fields of transfusion, transplantation, and cell-based therapies. Furthermore, cell surface modification may minimize or prevent adverse immune reactions to homologous incompatible cells as the interface between the host immune system and the cell surface is modified. In this report, we investigate the immune system reaction, precisely the complement binding and activation on cell surfaces modified with a functional polymer, hyperbranched polyglycerol (HPG). We used red blood cells (RBCs) as a model system to investigate the mechanism of complement activation on cell surfaces modified with various forms of HPG. Using a battery of in vitro assays including: traditional diagnostic hemolytic assays involving sheep and rabbit erythrocytes, ELISAs and flow cytometry, we show that HPG modified RBCs at certain concentrations and molecular weights activate complement via the alternative pathway. We show that by varying the grafting concentration, molecular weight and the number of cell surface reactive groups of HPG, the complement activity on the cell surface can be modulated. HPGs with molecular weights greater than 28kDa and grafting concentrations greater than 1.0mM, as well as a high degree of HPG functionalization with cell surface reactive groups result in the activation of the complement system via the alternative pathway. No complement activation observed when these threshold levels are not exceeded. These insights may have an impact on devising key strategies in developing novel next generation cell-surface engineered therapeutic products for applications in the fields of cell therapy, transfusion and drug delivery. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Cell-surface engineering using functional polymers is a fast emerging area of research. Importantly modified cells are used in many experimental therapeutics, transplantation and in transfusion. The success of such therapies depend on the ability of modified products to avoid immune detection and subsequent rejection or removal. Polymer grafting has been shown to modulate immune response, however, there is limited knowledge available. Thus in this manuscript, we investigated the interaction of human complement, part of our innate immune system, by polymer modified cells. Our results provide important evidences on the mechanism of complement activation by the modified cells and also found ways to modulate the innate immune response. These results will have implications in development of next generation cell-based therapies.
The usefulness of adenovirus as a vehicle for transgene delivery is limited greatly by the induction of neutralizing anti-adenoviral immunity following the initial administration, thereby resulting in shorter-term and reduced levels of transgene expression. In this paper, we outline a strategy for the generation of recombinant Ad5-based adenovectors that have undergone a complete hexon exchange in an effort to circumvent pre-existing anti-vector humoral immunity. Eighteen different chimeric adenoviral vectors (from subgroups A, B, C, D, and E) have been constructed using a combination of direct cloning and bacterial homologous recombination methods. However, only chimeric Ad5-based constructs in which the hexons from Ad1, Ad2, Ad6, and Ad12 are incorporated in place of the Ad5 hexon were successfully rescued into viruses. Despite several attempts, the remaining fourteen chimeric adenovectors were not rescuable. In vivo rodent studies using transgenes for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) gag and secreted human alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) suggest that the Ad5/Ad6-gag chimera (wherein Ad5 hexon was replaced with that of Ad6) is able to evade neutralizing antibodies generated against Ad5 vector efficiently. However, it appears that cross-reactive cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) may also play a role in controlling in vivo infectivity of Ad5/Ad6-gag chimera. The Ad5/Ad12 chimera was found to be extremely ineffective in the i.m. delivery and expression of HIV-1 gag in mice compared to the Ad5/Ad6 construct. Implications of these results will be discussed.
Epilepsy results from aberrant electrical activity that can affect either a focal area or the entire brain. In treating epilepsy with drugs, the aim is to decrease seizure frequency and severity while minimizing toxicity to the brain and other tissues. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are usually administered by oral and intravenous routes, but these drug treatments are not always effective. Drug access to the brain is severely limited by a number of biological factors, particularly the blood-brain barrier, which impedes the ability of AEDs to enter and remain in the brain. To improve the efficacy of AEDs, new drug delivery strategies are being developed; these methods fall into the three main categories: drug modification, blood-brain barrier modification, and direct drug delivery. Recently, all three methods have been improved through the use of drug-loaded nanoparticles.
PURPOSE: To investigate whether permeation enhancement techniques affect the nail plate. METHODS: Infrared and impedance spectroscopies examined the effects of hydration, iontophoresis and N-acetyl-L-cysteine on the human nail. RESULTS: While significant shifts to higher wavenumbers were observed for the symmetric and asymmetric -CH2 stretching vibrations these changes were essentially the same for the three treatments suggesting they were principally due to hydration alone. Spectral changes associated with amide bonds from nail protein were particularly evident post-treatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine. The alternating current conductivity and permittivity of the nail, particularly at low frequencies, increased with hydration. Iontophoresis increased the low frequency ac conductivity of the nail but had less effect on the nail capacitance/permittivity. Further, the effects seemed to return gradually to baseline after termination of current passage. Treatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine produced a greater perturbation, leading to increased low-frequency conductivity and a shift of the frequency-dependent conductivity region to a higher frequency. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the effects of iontophoresis on infrared and impedance spectroscopic profiles of the nail were attributable simply to increased hydration and similar to those observed after skin iontophoresis. In contrast, both spectroscopy techniques indicated that N-acetyl-L-cysteine disrupted nail structure in line with the enhancer's known effect on keratin.
SHG microscopy is an emerging microscopic technique for medically relevant imaging because certain endogenous proteins, such as muscle myosin lattices within muscle cells, are sufficiently spatially ordered to generate detectable SHG without the use of any fluorescent dye. Given that SHG signal is sensitive to the structural state of muscle sarcomeres, SHG functional imaging can give insight into the integrity of muscle cells in vivo. Here, we report a thorough theoretical and experimental characterization of myosin-derived SHG intensity profiles within intact zebrafish skeletal muscle. We determined that "SHG vernier" patterns, regions of bifurcated SHG intensity, are illusory when sarcomeres are staggered with respect to one another. These optical artifacts arise due to the phase coherence of SHG signal generation and the Guoy phase shift of the laser at the focus. In contrast, two-photon excited fluorescence images obtained from fluorescently labeled sarcomeric components do not contain such illusory structures, regardless of the orientation of adjacent myofibers. Based on our results, we assert that complex optical artifacts such as SHG verniers should be taken into account when applying functional SHG imaging as a diagnostic readout for pathological muscle conditions.
Dual intracellular recordings in slices of adult rat neocortex and hippocampus investigated slow, putative GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. In most pairs tested in which the interneuron elicited a fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential in the pyramid, this GABA(A) receptor mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential was entirely blocked by bicuculline or picrotoxin (3:3 in neocortex, 6:8 in CA1, all CA1 basket cells), even when high-frequency presynaptic spike trains were elicited. However, in three of 85 neocortical paired recordings involving an interneuron, although no discernible response was elicited by single presynaptic interneuronal spikes, a long latency (> or =20 ms) inhibitory postsynaptic potential was elicited by a train of > or =3 spikes at frequencies > or =50-100 Hz. This slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was insensitive to bicuculline (one pair tested). In neocortex, slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential duration reached a maximum of 200 ms even with prolonged presynaptic spike trains. In contrast, summing fast, GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, elicited by spike trains, lasted as long as the train. Between four and 10 presynaptic spikes, mean peak slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude increased sharply to 0.38, 2.6 and 2.9 mV, respectively, in the three neocortical pairs (membrane potential -60 to -65 mV). Thereafter increases in spike number had little additional effect on amplitude. In two of eight pairs in CA1, one involving a presynaptic basket cell and the other a putative bistratified interneuron, the fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential was blocked by bicuculline revealing a slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential that was greatly reduced by 100 microM CGP 35348 (basket cell pair). The sensitivity of this slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential to spike number was similar to that of neocortical 'pure' slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, but was of longer duration, its plateau phase outlasting 200 ms spike trains and its maximum duration exceeding 400 ms. Computational models of GABA release, diffusion and uptake suggested that extracellular accumulation of GABA cannot alone account for the non-linear relationship between spike number and inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude. However, cooperativity in the kinetics of GABA(B) transduction mechanisms provided non-linear relations similar to experimental data. Different kinetic models were considered for how G-proteins activate K+ channels, including allosteric models. For all models, the best fit to experimental data was obtained with four G-protein binding sites on the K+ channels, consistent with a tetrameric structure for the K+ channels associated with GABA(B) receptors. Thus some inhibitory connections in neocortex and hippocampus appear mediated solely by fast GABA(A) receptors, while others appear mediated solely by slow, non-ionotropic, possibly GABA(B) receptors. In addition, some inhibitory postsynaptic potentials arising in proximal portions of CA1 pyramidal cells are mediated by both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. Our data indicate that the GABA released by a single interneuron can saturate the GABA(B) receptor mechanism(s) accessible to it and that 'spillover' to extrasynaptic sites need not necessarily be proposed to explain these slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential properties.
AIMS: The objectives of this study were to investigate the occurrence and concentration of thermotolerant Campylobacter spp. at different stages of the poultry meat supply chain in Argentina. METHODS: Three integrated poultry companies were sampled. Each supply chain was considered at different stages from the reproductive farm to chicken meat at a retail market. The stages sampled were: (a) hens from breeder flocks, (b) eggs in the incubator, (c) broiler chickens in flocks (aged <1 week and >5 weeks), (d) chickens at a slaughterhouse, and (e) chicken meat at a retail market. The chickens sampled along each supply chain were in the same batch. Samples collected were: (a) cloacal samples from hens and chickens on the farms, (b) fertile eggs, (c) feed, water and litter from flocks, (d) chicken carcasses from the slaughterhouse and retail market, and (e) caeca and livers from the slaughterhouse. Samples obtained were examined for Campylobacter spp. The isolates were biotyped and the genus and species identified by PCR. Campylobacter spp. on chicken carcasses at slaughterhouse and retail market were enumerated. RESULTS: The highest proportions of Campylobacter positive samples were observed in carcasses at retail (25/30, 83.3%) and faecal samples from breeding hens (27/45, 60.0%). Only 3.3% (3/90) samples collected from broiler chickens aged <1 week were positive, but the percentage of positive samples had risen to 28.9% (26/90) by the end of the rearing period. The proportions of Campylobacter positive carcasses and caecal contents at the slaughterhouse were both 33.3% (10 of 30 samples each). The concentration of Campylobacter contamination observed on carcasses at retail markets ranged from no bacteria/carcass to 3.71 log10 cfu/carcass. CONCLUSIONS: The data obtained provide essential information for future quantitative risk assessments aiming to estimate the probability of a person contracting campylobacteriosis following consumption of broiler meat in Argentina. CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The proportions of Campylobacter-positive samples found in this preliminary study indicate that a large proportion of the cases of human gastroenteritis in Argentina may be due to this pathogen. Human cases of gastroenteritis should be studied in greater detail and measures should be developed to reduce the proportion of poultry products that are contaminated by Campylobacter species.
BACKGROUND: Blood biomarkers are valuable tools for elucidating complex cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying traumatic brain injury (TBI). Profiling distinct classes of biomarkers could aid in the identification and characterization of initial injury and secondary pathological processes. This study characterized the prognostic performance of a recently developed multi-marker panel of circulating biomarkers that reflect specific pathogenic mechanisms including neuroinflammation, oxidative damage, and neuroregeneration, in moderate-to-severe TBI patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Peripheral blood was drawn from 85 isolated TBI patients (n = 60 severe, n = 25 moderate) at hospital admission, 6-, 12-, and 24-h post-injury. Mortality and neurological outcome were assessed using the extended Glasgow Outcome Scale. A multiplex platform was designed on MULTI-SPOT((R)) plates to simultaneously analyze human plasma levels of s100 calcium binding protein beta (s100B), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neuron specific enolase (NSE), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-5, and peroxiredoxin (PRDX)-6. Multivariable logistic regression and area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) were used to evaluate both individual and combined predictive abilities of these markers for 6-month neurological outcome and mortality after TBI. RESULTS: Unfavorable neurological outcome was associated with elevations in s100B, GFAP, and MCP-1. Mortality was related to differences in six of the seven markers analyzed. Combined admission concentrations of s100B, GFAP, and MCP-1 were able to discriminate favorable versus unfavorable outcome (AUC = 0.83), and survival versus death (AUC = 0.87), although not significantly better than s100B alone (AUC = 0.82 and 0.86, respectively). CONCLUSION: The multi-marker panel of TBI-related biomarkers performed well in discriminating unfavorable and favorable outcomes in the acute period after moderate-to-severe TBI. However, the combination of these biomarkers did not outperform s100B alone.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between subclinical inflammation and weight loss by laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB). METHODS: Plasma concentrations of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), sensitive C-Reactive Protein (sCRP), asymmetrical dimethyl-L-arginine (ADMA), Secretory Phospholipase A2 (sPLA2), and metabolic markers, such as homeostatic model assessment insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and body mass index (BMI) were determined in morbidly obese patients (n=18, BMI 48.6 +/- 1.7 kg/m2) at baseline and 1 month after operations. Baseline levels in patients were also compared with age-matched controls (n=20, BMI 21.3 +/- 1.8 kg/m2). Plasma ICAM-1, VCAM, sCRP and ADMA, and sPLA2 concentrations were determined by enzyme-linked immunoassay methods and colorimetric method, respectively. RESULTS: Plasma sCRP, ICAM-1, ADMA and sPLA2 concentrations and HOMA-IR were significantly higher in morbidly obese patients than in controls (for each, P<0.01). Plasma VCAM-1 concentration was not changed in obese patients. HOMA-IR was significantly correlated with ICAM-1, ADMA and sPLA2 in the obese group at baseline (for each, P<0.01). There was a significant correlation between plasma sCRP and plasma glucose, VCAM-1, ICAM-1, ADMA and sPLA2 concentrations (for each, P<0.01). 1 month after LAGB, mean body weight loss was 13.2 +/- 6.3 kg, and plasma sCRP and ADMA concentrations and HOMA-IR and BMI were significantly decreased (for each, P<0.01). However, these levels cannot be decreased to the levels of the controls. CONCLUSION: Obesity and insulin resistance appear to be associated with low-grade inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Insulin resistance and endothelial dysfunction were improved by weight loss after LAGB.
Susan Pearson reports on some of the most interesting presentations at an International Biodeterioration and Biodegradation Society (IBBS) and Public Health England conference on 'Water microbiology - current and emerging issues in healthcare', held at the University of Winchester in early September. Two and a half years after the publication of the Addendum to HTM 04-01 - which gave advice on controlling and minimising the risk of morbidity and mortality due to P. aeruginosa in augmented care units - a major focus at the event was on how well the Addendum had been working for those 'at the frontline of infection control', and what improvements, if any, might be needed.
The inevitable conclusion is that the availability of biological warfare agents and supporting technologic infrastructure, coupled with the fact that there are many people motivated to do harm to the United States, means that America must be prepared to defend her homeland against biological agents. Some have argued to the contrary, that the threat and risks from a biological weapon attack are not to be considered serious, because [39]: They've not been used yet on a large scale so they probably won't be in the near future. Their use is so morally repugnant that they probably won't be used at all. The technologic hurdles associated with isolating, growing, purifying, weaponizing, and disseminating adequate quantities of pathologic agents are so high that only the most advanced laboratories could attempt the process. Similar to a 'nuclear winter,' the aftermath of a biological attack is so unthinkable that none would attempt it. Unfortunately, the trends associated with biotechnology globalization, terrorist group dynamics, and global/regional politics render these beliefs untenable and inappropriate, as recent events have underscored. To that end, the United States has accelerated its program of defense against biological weapons, as it must. Biological weapons are such dreadful weapons of uniqueness and complexity that a specific defense strategy is paramount. Elements of this program include pharmaceutical stockpiles, heightened surveillance systems, energized vaccine development programs, and comprehensive training initiatives. Although the depth and breadth of these efforts are unprecedented, above all these efforts is the absolute necessity for medical and public health care professionals to be educated and actively involved. These professionals are the sine qua non of future defensive readiness. This is just the start; unfortunately, there is no end yet in sight.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have long been viewed as deleterious chemicals that lead to oxidative stress. More recently, ROS, especially the stable ROS hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), have been shown to have roles in normal physiological responses in vascular cells. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is dynamically targeted to plasmalemmal caveolae, and represents the principal enzymatic source of nitric oxide (NO(*)) in the vascular wall. eNOS maintains normal vascular tone and inhibits the clinical expression of many cardiovascular diseases. Increases in oxidative stress are associated with eNOS dysfunction. In a paradigm shift in the conceptual framework linking redox biochemistry and vascular function, H(2)O(2) has been established as a physiological mediator in signaling pathways, yet the intracellular sources of H(2)O(2) and their regulation remain incompletely understood. The subcellular distributions of ROS and of ROS-modified proteins critically influence the redox-sensitive regulation of eNOS-dependent pathways. ROS localization in specific subcellular compartments can lead to selective oxidative modifications of eNOS and eNOS-associated proteins. Likewise, the dynamic targeting of eNOS and other signaling proteins influences their interactions with reactive nitrogen species and ROS that are also differentially distributed within the cell. Thus, the subcellular distribution both of eNOS and redox-active biomolecules serves as a critical basis for the control of the "redox switch" that influences NO(*)- and oxidant-regulated signaling pathways. Here we discuss the biochemical factors, cellular determinants, and molecular mechanisms that modulate redox-sensitive regulation of eNOS and NO(*) signaling under normal and pathological conditions.
The antinociceptive and antispasmodic properties of the essential oil of OCIMUM micranthum (EOOM) were characterized. In mice, EOOM (15-100 mg . kg (-1), p. o.) reduced both the writhing responses induced by acetic acid and the licking-time induced by formalin, being inert on the hot plate test. In rat trachea, EOOM relaxed sustained contractions induced by KCl or carbachol (CCh). Its constituents, ( E)- [( E)-MC] and ( Z)-methyl cinnamate [( Z)-MC], reproduced several effects of EOOM. Inhaled as aerosol, EOOM prevented tracheal hyperresponsiveness to KCl or CCh in ovalbumin-sensitized animals after antigen challenge. Thus, EOOM exerts peripheral analgesia in nociception of inflammatory origin and has antispasmodic actions on rat airways under an inflammatory environment. Its effects are mainly due to ( E)-MC, which makes this substance potentially interesting for studies involving conjunctly smooth muscle cells, nociception, and inflammation. Other EOOM constituents also appear to be involved in its pharmacological actions.
Since its development in the 1980s, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has undergone a great deal of technological modifications. EUS has become an important tool in the evaluation of patients with various clinical disorders and is increasingly being utilized in many centers. EUS has been evolving over the years; EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) for cytological and/or histological diagnosis has become standard practice and a wide array of interventional and therapeutic procedures are performed under EUS guidance for diseases which otherwise would have needed surgery, with its associated morbidities. EUS shares the risks and complications of other endoscopic procedures. This article addresses the specific adverse effects and risks associated with EUS, EUS-FNA and interventional EUS, namely perforation, bleeding, pancreatitis and infection. Measures to help minimizing these risks will also be discussed.
This work presents a novel method for detecting nucleic acid targets using a ligation step along with an isothermal, exponential amplification step. We use an engineered ssDNA with two variable regions on the ends, allowing us to design the probe for optimal reaction kinetics and primer binding. This two-part probe is ligated by T4 DNA Ligase only when both parts bind adjacently to the target. The assay demonstrates that the expected 72-nt RNA product appears only when the synthetic target, T4 ligase, and both probe fragments are present during the ligation step. An extraneous 38-nt RNA product also appears due to linear amplification of unligated probe (P3), but its presence does not cause a false-positive result. In addition, 40 mmol/L KCl in the final amplification mix was found to be optimal. It was also found that increasing P5 in excess of P3 helped with ligation and reduced the extraneous 38-nt RNA product. The assay was also tested with a single nucleotide polymorphism target, changing one base at the ligation site. The assay was able to yield a negative signal despite only a single-base change. Finally, using P3 and P5 with longer binding sites results in increased overall sensitivity of the reaction, showing that increasing ligation efficiency can improve the assay overall. We believe that this method can be used effectively for a number of diagnostic assays.
We have recently shown that human neutrophils bind and internalize human eosinophil peroxidase (EPO) but not myeloperoxidase (MPO). In the present work, we studied the interactions of human EPO and MPO with other cells that may be involved in the inflammatory process, i.e., lymphocytes, monocytes, platelets, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells. The results indicate that EPO is bound by all the cell types considered, but is efficiently internalized only by lymphocytes, monocytes, and endothelial cells. Conversely, MPO binds appreciably only to fibroblasts and endothelial cells, although with a lower affinity than EPO, but its internalization by any of the cell types studied is hardly detectable. Furthermore, both peroxidases bind strongly to collagen fibers, whereas only EPO binds to elastin. The results suggest that EPO, owing to its high cytophilia, exerts its biological activity close to the site at which it is released from the eosinophil.
We present a statistical summary of results from the Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP) for Mycobacterium tuberculosis Drug Susceptibility Testing, 1994 to 2008, implemented by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). During that period, a total of 57,733 test results for culture isolates were reported by 216 participating laboratories for the first-line antituberculosis drugs used in the United States-isoniazid (INH), rifampin (RMP), ethambutol (EMB), and pyrazinamide (PZA). Using Clinical Laboratory and Standards Institute (CLSI)-recommended concentrations for one or more of three methods, agar proportion (AP), BACTEC460 (Bactec), and MGIT-960 (MGIT), yielded overall agreement of 97.0% for first-line drugs. For susceptible strains, agreement was 98.4%; for resistant strains, agreement was 91.0%, with significantly lower accuracy (chi-square test, P < 0.0001). For resistant strains, overall agreement by methods was 91.3% for AP, 93.0% for Bactec, and 82.6% for MGIT and by drugs was 92.2% for INH, 91.5% for RMP, 79.0% for EMB, and 97.5% for PZA. For some strains, performance by method varied significantly. Use of duplicate strains in the same shipment and repeat strains over time revealed consistent performance even for strains with higher levels of interlaboratory discordance. No overall differences in performance between laboratories were observed based on volume of testing or type of facility (e.g., health department, hospital, independent). By all methods, decreased performance was observed for strains with low-level INH resistance, RMP resistance, and EMB-resistant strains. These results demonstrate a high level of performance in detection of drug-resistant M. tuberculosis in U.S. laboratories.
Glypican 3 (GPC3), a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored heparan sulfate proteoglycan, is expressed in a majority of hepatocellular carcinoma tissues. The murine monoclonal antibody GC33 that specifically binds to the COOH-terminal part of GPC3 causes strong antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity against hepatocellular carcinoma cells and exhibits strong antitumor activity in the xenograft models. To apply GC33 for clinical use, we generated a humanized GC33 from complementarity-determining region grafting with the aid of both the hybrid variable region and two-step design methods. The humanized antibody bound to GPC3 specifically and induced antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity as effectively as a chimeric GC33 antibody. To improve stability of the humanized GC33, we further optimized humanized GC33 by replacing the amino acid residues that may affect the structure of the variable region of a heavy chain. Substitution of Glu6 with Gln in the heavy chain significantly improved the stability under high temperatures. GC33 also has the risk of deamidation of the -Asn-Gly- sequence in the complementarity-determining region 1 of the light chain. As substitution of Asn diminished the antigen binding, we changed the neighboring Gly to Arg to avoid deamidation. The resulting humanized anti-GPC3 antibody was as efficacious as chimeric GC33 against the HepG2 xenograft and is now being evaluated in clinical trials.
When the normal growth and development of a child fails it can cause major developmental and clinical problems. It is important that nurses understand the rationale behind genetic tests and therapies for diseases such as cystic fibrosis and childhood cancers.
BACKGROUND: Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a rare immunodeficiency due to a genetic defect in one of the NADPH-oxidase components. We studied CGD inheritance forms (autosomal recessive (AR) or X-linked (XL)) and AR-CGD subtypes in Iran. METHODS: Clinical and functional investigations were conducted in 93 Iranian CGD patients from 75 families. RESULTS: Most of the patients were AR-CGD (87.1%). This was related to consanguineous marriages (p = 0.001). The age of onset of symptoms and diagnosis were lower in XL-CGD compared with AR-CGD (p < 0.0001 for both). Among AR-CGD patients, p47phox defect was the predominant subtype (55.5%). The most common clinical features in patients were lymphadenopathy (65.6%) and pulmonary involvement (57%). XL-CGD patients were affected more frequently with severe infectious manifestations. CONCLUSIONS: Although XL-CGD is the most common type of the disease worldwide, only 12 patients (12.9%) were XL-CGD in our study. The relatively high frequency of AR-CGD is probable due to widely common consanguineous marriages in Iran.
PURPOSE: The use of recombinant human interleukin (rhIL)-15 as a potential therapeutic immune modulator and anticancer agent requires pure, stable preparations. However, purified rhIL-15 preparations readily accumulated heterogeneities. We sought to improve rhIL-15 stability through process, formulation, and targeted amino acid changes. METHODS: The solution state of rhIL-15 versus buffer composition and temperature was studied using SEC and IEX methods. rhIL-15 deamidation was confirmed using RP-HPLC/ESI-MS, enzymatic labeling, and peptide mapping. Deamidation kinetics were measured versus buffer composition and pH using RP-HPLC. Deamidation-resistant rhIL-15 variants (N77A, N77S, N77Q, G78A, and [N71S/N72A/N77A]) were produced in E. coli, then assayed for T-cell culture expansion potency and deamidation resistance. RESULTS: Adding 20% ethanol to buffers or heating at >/=32 degrees C dispersed rhIL-15 transient pairs, improving purification efficiencies. Asparagine 77 deamidated rapidly at pH 7.4 with activation energy of 22.9 kcal per mol. Deamidation in citrate buffer was 17-fold slower at pH 5.9 than at pH 7.4. Amino acid substitutions at N77 or G78 slowed deamidation >/=23-fold. rhIL-15 variants N77A and (N71S/N72A/N77A) were active in a CTLL-2 proliferation assay equivalent to unsubstituted rhIL-15. CONCLUSIONS: The N77A and (N71S/N72A/N77A) rhIL-15 variants are resistant to deamidation and remain potent, thus providing enhanced drug substances for clinical evaluation.
Immunological tolerance to the fetus is essential for fetal survival during pregnancy. The semi-allogeneic fetus expresses genes foreign to the mother that can be recognized by maternal T cells. Under times of stress or infection, deleterious immune responses can result in fetal destruction and/or maternal death. Exposure to non-maternal antigens begins as early as insemination and some of the mechanisms required to prevent maternal priming against these antigens are in place before sexual encounter. Continuous and overlapping regulatory mechanisms must cooperate to allow the best chances for fertilization, implantation, and healthy gestation, simultaneously protecting the fetus from maternal immune attack yet making minimal compromises in resistance to infection. Several types of immune cell from both the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system help protect both the mother and fetus during pregnancy. It's the intricate communication and interplay between the immune system and the endocrine system that will ultimately decide the success or fate of the developing fetus.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Analysis of DNA polymorphic sites is a powerful tool for detection of gene flow in human evolutionary studies and to trace genetic background associated with abnormal genes. The beta-globin locus contains more than 20 single-base restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) sites spanning over 80 kb on chromosome 11. Far downstream of the expressed genes, there is a hypersensitive site (HS). The function of the 3'-HS remains unknown. As an approach to the understanding of the 3'-HS region in sickle cell anemia we searched for sequence polymorphism in the AT-rich region, using a non-radioactive polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) technique. DESIGN AND METHODS: A 460 bp fragment located at the 3' of the b globin gene was amplified from patients (with sickle cell anemia and HbSC disease), and from AS individuals. Standard RFLP-haplotyping was performed and compared with the PCR-SSCP screening strategy. RESULTS: Two distinct band patterns were revealed by SSCP testing, each one in strict linkage disequilibrium with either Benin or Bantu haplotypes. Direct sequencing of the amplified segment revealed a TAA insertion in the AT-rich region, in all 121 beta(S) Benin chromosomes tested, but not in other beta(S) haplotypes from the total of 380 beta(S) chromosomes typed. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: SSCP analysis could easily distinguish sequence variations in the 3'AT-rich region of the beta-globin cluster, and a TAA insertion in this region seems to be specific for the Benin-beta(S) chromosome.
Detonation nanodiamonds (NDs) were deposited on the surface of aligned carbon nanotubes (CNTs) by immersing a CNT array in an aqueous suspension of NDs in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). The structure and electronic state of the obtained CNT-ND hybrid material were studied using optical and electron microscopy and Infrared, Raman, X-ray photoelectron and near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy. A non-covalent interaction between NDs and CNT and preservation of vertical orientation of CNTs in the hybrid were revealed. We showed that current-voltage characteristics of the CNT-ND cathode are changed depending on the applied field; below ~3 V/microm they are similar to those of the initial CNT array and at the higher field they are close to the ND behavior. Involvement of the NDs in field emission process resulted in blue luminescence of the hybrid surface at an electric field higher than 3.5 V/microm. Photoluminescence measurements showed that the NDs emit blue-green light, while blue luminescence prevails in the CNT-ND hybrid. The quenching of green luminescence was attributed to a partial removal of oxygen-containing groups from the ND surface as the result of the hybrid synthesis.
The role of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV) in producing intestinal disease was studied prospectively in 74 HIV-infected individuals with (43) or without (31) the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Thirty-one subjects had enteric infections; all but one had AIDS. Alteration in bowel habits was the most common symptom and occurred independently of enteric infections. Abnormal histopathology was present in 69% of cases, and the finding was associated with altered bowel habits. An HIV-associated protein, p24, was detected in 71% of biopsies by ELISA assay. Tissue p24 contents varied with disease stage and were highest in HIV-infected individuals without AIDS (Walter Reed classes 3 and 4). Tissue p24 detection was associated with both altered bowel habits and histologic mucosal abnormalities. Tissue contents of the cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta, were higher in HIV-infected individuals than in controls and their elevations were independent of enteric infection. We conclude that HIV reactivation in the intestinal mucosa may be associated with an inflammatory bowel syndrome in the absence of other enteric pathogens.
INTRODUCTION: Recent developments in the study of men's sexual response have raised significant issues related to the definition and diagnosis of premature ejaculation (PE). AIM: We wanted to understand men's perceived reasons for "ejaculating before they wanted," whether they selected attributions from the same broad category when allowed to endorse multiple reasons, and whether younger and older cohorts differed in their attributions. METHODS: A subsample of 376 men who indicated that they "ejaculated before they wanted" was drawn from a larger pool of 1,249 men participating in an online survey on men's sexual health. This subsample responded to a number of items regarding their ejaculatory patterns, including two questions listing 10 possible self-reported attributions/reasons for their quick ejaculation--one item allowed respondents to endorse multiple reasons, the other limited the response to the most important reason. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measure was men's attributions for ejaculating before desired, with choices from 10 possible pretested reasons. In addition, concordance across attributions was determined, that is, if a man responded to one category, was he also likely to select another category? RESULTS: Men who met the ejaculatory latency criterion for PE were generally no different from those who did not. Overall, when required to select the most important attribution, most men identified a specific issue with "lack of self-efficacy" (lack of control or aroused too quickly). Few respondents identified erection loss, partner issues, or medical/medication concerns as the reason--and these patterns were independent of age. Concordance was high across self-efficacy attributions but low across other attributions. CONCLUSIONS: Most men who complain of ejaculating before desired attribute this response to problems with self-efficacy. Only a small percent of men identified other possible reasons for their quick ejaculation. Such findings have implications for both the diagnostic process and definitional language for PE.
Cognitive impairment is a common symptom in patients with brain metastasis, and significant cognitive dysfunction is prevalent in a majority of patients who are still able to engage in basic self-care activities. In the current study, the neurocognitive performance of 32 patients with brain metastasis and 32 demographically-matched controls was examined using a battery of standardized neuropsychological tests, with the goal of comprehensively examining the cognitive functioning of newly diagnosed brain metastasis patients. The cognition of all patients was assessed within 1 week of beginning treatment for brain metastasis. Results indicated impairments in verbal memory, attention, executive functioning, and language in relation to healthy controls. Performance in relation to appropriate normative groups was also examined. Overall, cognitive deficits were prevalent and memory was the most common impairment. Given that cognitive dysfunction was present in this cohort of patients with largely minimal functional impairment, these results have implications for patients, caregivers and health care providers treating patients with brain metastasis.
This paper analyses data of 150 female patients undergoing surgical treatment for invasive ductal breast cancer at the University Hospital for Tumors from January 2006 to January 2007. The control group consisted of 50 healthy women. The patients were classified into three groups, depending on their tumor differentiation, i.e. grade I, II and III tumor groups. Each group consisted of 50 patients. Traditional prognostic factors including: age, tumor size and differentiation grade, axillary lymph node status, presence of distant metastases, steroid receptor findings, vascular invasion of the primary tumor, presence of an extensive intraductal component (EIC) in the primary tumor, HER-2 protein expression were evaluated. Both the patients' and controls' serum levels of proMMP-2 (pro-matrix metalloproteinase-2) were assessed using the ELISA method. The aim of the study was to assess pathohistological prognostic factors and the level of serum proMMP-2 in the three patient groups and the controls, compare the relationship between the prognostic factors and the level of serum proMMP-2 in the patient groups, and upon the results, determine possible features of proMMP-2 as a prognostic factor in breast cancer patients. The study results showed no difference in proMMP-2 concentrations between the three patient groups and the controls. No statistically significant difference in the serum proMMP-2 concentration was found between the patient groups, although the grade III group values were the highest showing a trend toward statistical significance. Comparison of proMMP-2 and prognostic factors revealed a statistically significant correlation between proMMP-2 and age in patients with histologic grade I tumors. There was no statistically significant correlation between circulating proMMP-2 and other pathohistological prognostic factors.
The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) is a chloride ion channel constructed from two membrane-spanning domains (MSDs), two nucleotide-binding domains (NBD) and a regulatory (R) domain. The NBDs and R-domain are cytosolic and how they are assembled with the MSDs to achieve the native CFTR structure is not clear. Human DnaJ 2 (Hdj-2) is a co-chaperone of heat shock cognate 70 (Hsc70) which is localized to the cytosolic face of the ER. Whether Hdj-2 directs Hsc70 to facilitate the assembly of cytosolic regions on CFTR was investigated. We report that immature ER forms of CFTR and DeltaF508 CFTR can be isolated in complexes with Hdj-2 and Hsc70. The DeltaF508 mutation is localized in NBD1 and causes the CFTR to misfold. Levels of complex formation between DeltaF508 CFTR and Hdj-2/Hsp70 were approximately 2-fold higher than those with CFTR. The earliest stage at which Hdj-2/Hsc70 could bind CFTR translation intermediates coincided with the expression of NBD1 in the cytosol. Interestingly, complex formation between Hdj-2 and nascent CFTR was greatly reduced after expression of the R-domain. In experiments with purified components, Hdj-2 and Hsc70 acted synergistically to suppress NBD1 aggregation. Collectively, these data suggest that Hdj-2 and Hsc70 facilitate early steps in CFTR assembly. A putative step in the CFTR folding pathway catalyzed by Hdj-2/Hsc70 is the formation of an intramolecular NBD1-R-domain complex. Whether this step is defective in the biogenesis of DeltaF508 CFTR will be discussed.
Single-walled carbon nanotubes were encapsulated into different polymer-based monolithic backbones. The polymer monoliths were prepared via the copolymerization of 20% monomers, glycidyl methacrylate, 20% ethylene glycol dimethacrylate and 60% porogens (36% 1-propanol, 18% 1,4-butanediol) or 16.4% monomers (16% butyl methacrylate, 0.4% sulfopropyl methacrylate), 23.6% ethylene glycol dimethacrylate and 60% porogens (36% 1-propanol, 18% 1,4-butanediol) along with 6% single-walled carbon nanotubes aqueous suspension. The effect of single-walled carbon nanotubes on the chiral separation of twelve classes of pharmaceutical racemates namely; alpha- and beta-blockers, antiinflammatory drugs, antifungal drugs, dopamine antagonists, norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitors, catecholamines, sedative hypnotics, diuretics, antihistaminics, anticancer drugs and antiarrhythmic drugs was investigated. The enantioselective separation was carried out under multimodal elution to explore the chiral recognition capabilities of single-walled carbon nanotubes using reversed phase, polar organic and normal phase chromatographic conditions using nano-liquid chromatography. Baseline separation was achieved for celiprolol, chlorpheniramine, etozoline, nomifensine and sulconazole under multimodal elution conditions. Satisfactory repeatability was achieved through run-to-run, column-to-column and batch-to-batch investigations. Our findings demonstrate that single-walled carbon nanotubes represent a promising stationary phase for the chiral separation and may open the field for a new class of chiral selectors.
While the performance-enhancing effects of energy drinks are commonly attributed to caffeine, recent research has shown greater facilitation of performance post-consumption than typically expected from caffeine content alone. Consequently, the aim of the present study was to investigate the independent and combined effect of taurine and caffeine on behavioural performance, specifically reaction time. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, within-subjects design, female undergraduates (N=19) completed a visual oddball task and a stimulus degradation task 45min post-ingestion of capsules containing: (i) 80mg caffeine, (ii) 1000mg taurine, (iii) caffeine and taurine combined, and (iv) matched placebo. Participants completed each treatment condition, with sessions separated by a minimum 2-day washout period. Whereas no significant treatment effects were recorded for reaction time in the visual oddball task, facilitative caffeine effects were evident in the stimulus degradation task, with significantly faster reaction time in active relative to placebo caffeine conditions. Furthermore, there was a trend towards faster mean reaction time in the caffeine condition relative to the taurine condition and combined caffeine and taurine condition. Thus, treatment effects were task-dependent, in that independent caffeine administration exerted a positive effect on performance, and co-administration with taurine tended to attenuate the facilitative effects of caffeine in the stimulus degradation task only.
To generate the transgenic mice expressing cyclization recombination enzyme, the recombinant gene, in which the coding region of cre gene is derived by the promoter of mouse Mx gene, was microinjected into pronuclei of fertilized mouse eggs. Founders of transgenic mice harbouring the recombinant gene were screened by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) at genomic DNA level and confirmed by Southern blot. One line of Mx-cre transgenic mice was obtained. Then, the Mx-cre transgenic mouse line was cultured and propagated.
BACKGROUND: Combination antiretroviral regimens including nelfinavir (NFV) are commonly used in pregnancy. We studied the safety, antiviral effect, and pharmacokinetics of NFV and its M8 metabolite with two dosing regimens in combination with zidovudine (ZDV) and lamivudine (3TC) in HIV-infected pregnant women. METHOD: HIV-infected pregnant women between 14 and 34 weeks gestation received NFV (Cohort 1: 750 mg tid, n = 10; Cohort 2: 1250 mg bid, n = 23) with ZDV and 3TC. Serial blood sampling for NFV concentrations was performed antepartum (AP) and 6 weeks postpartum (PP). Maternal and cord blood samples were also obtained at delivery. NFV and M8 levels were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. The pharmacokinetic (PK) target was an extrapolated NFV AUC0-24 > 30 mug . h/mL. Mothers were followed frequently for potential clinical and laboratory toxicity. RESULTS: Overall, NFV in combination with ZDV and 3TC was well tolerated. The PK target was met in 3/8 AP and 5/7 PP in Cohort 1 and 17/21 AP and 16/17 PP in Cohort 2. When Cohort 2 NFV PK parameters AP and PP were compared, median Cmax (3.90 microg/mL vs. 5.01 microg/mL, p < .05) and AUC0-24 (56.6 vs. 86.8 microg . h/mL, p < .05) were increased PP and oral clearance (Cl/F; 44.2 vs. 28.8 L/h, p < .05) was decreased PP. The average M8/NFV ratio was increased PP compared to AP (0.085 vs. 0.29, p < .001). Placental transfer of NFV was low with a median cord blood:maternal plasma ratio at delivery of 0.05. Maternal mean CD4+ T cell counts increased significantly and plasma HIV-1 RNA levels decreased from entry to delivery and 6 to 12 weeks postpartum. CONCLUSION: NFV used in combination with ZDV and 3TC was well tolerated in pregnant HIV-infected women and produced a significant improvement in HIV disease parameters. NFV drug exposure is inadequate in most pregnant women receiving 750 mg tid but is much improved with 1250 mg bid. NFV crosses the placenta poorly. The AP increase in NFV oral clearance and decrease in M8/NFV ratio suggest that CYP3A activity increases relative to CYP2C19 activity during pregnancy.
Light is harvested by natural photosynthetic systems to generate electrochemical gradients that power various reactions. Implementing nature's lessons in photosynthesis holds great promise for technological advances. With a focus on designs and concepts, recent progress in generating electrochemical gradients by light, mimicking the two general types of photosynthetic centers in nature that make use of either light-induced charge separation or photo-isomerization are summarized here. Light induced electrochemical gradients pave new ways for photoelectric conversion. While extensive research in this direction has focused on light-induced charge separation, recent work has shown that energy conversion based on photo-isomerization is very promising. Photoswitchable compounds have been found in nature, such as the retinal molecule in bacteriorhodopsin. These compounds may form an attractive molecular basis for future progress in this field.
BACKGROUND: Transhepatic portal vein (PV) stenting has been shown to be one of the most important treatments for patients with PV stenosis caused by hepatopancreatobiliary malignancy. METHODS: Ten consecutive patients with PV stenosis caused by the recurrence of a perihilar biliary malignancy underwent transhepatic PV stenting. A self-expandable metallic stent was deployed at the stenosis site. The patients were retrospectively analyzed with regard to the procedure, complications, and survival after the stent placement. RESULTS: The median interval between the primary resection and the PV stenting was 22 months. The initial hepatic resection was a left trisectionectomy with caudate lobectomy in seven patients, a left hepatectomy with caudate lobectomy in one patient, a right anterior sectionectomy with caudate lobectomy following a left hepatectomy in one patient and a partial liver resection in one patient. The angle of the PV around the stenosis was greater in the patients with PV stenosis located in the right posterior PV. Eight patients with successful PV stent placement were able to receive anticancer treatment, with a median survival of 14 months. The remaining two patients without successful PV stent placement survived less than 6 months. CONCLUSIONS: Portal vein stenting might offer relief from the symptoms associated with PV hypertension and the opportunity for sustainable anticancer therapy in patients with recurrent perihilar biliary malignancy.
Hepatitis C infection (HCV) is more prevalent in patients who have received kidney transplants than in the general population but the morbidity and mortality associated with infection in this group is unclear. Sera taken from 36 renal transplant recipients with chronic liver dysfunction and from 42 with normal liver function were tested for HCV infection by second generation ELISA (Abbott Laboratories) and second generation recombinant immunoblot assay (Chiron Corporation) (RIBA-2). Evidence of HCV replication was sought by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) using primers from the 5' nontranslated region (5'NTR). Infection was detected in 20/36 (54%) and in 2/42 (4.8%) controls (P < 0.01). Twelve liver dysfunction patients were positive by all three tests, six were positive by ELISA and RT PCR but had indeterminate RIBA-2, one was positive by ELISA and RIBA but negative by RT PCR, and one was positive only by RT PCR. Of two infected control patients, one was positive by all three tests and one who was later found to have been in the early stage of infection was positive only by RT PCR. Follow-up of infected patients showed persistence of viraemia in 14/15 (93%). Evidence of infection with different types of HCV was shown by the lack of amplification by RT PCR by primers with mismatching bases with HCV types 2 and 3. It is concluded that in our renal transplant patients, chronic HCV infection is usually associated with liver dysfunction and persistent infection is common.
Veloporphyrellus is a genus known from North and Central America, southeastern Asia, and Africa. Because species of this genus are phenotypically similar to some taxa in several genera, such as Boletellus, Leccinum, Strobilomyces, Suillus and Tylopilus s.l. belonging to Boletales, its phylogenetic disposition has never been addressed. We analyzed four DNA regions, the nuclear ribosomal LSU and tef-1alpha, and the mitochondrial mtSSU and atp6 genes, to investigate the phylogenetic disposition of Veloporphyrellus. Although the monophyly of the genus and its systematic placement within the Boletaceae was well supported, its relationship to other genera was not resolved. Morphologically Veloporphyrellus is distinguished from other boletoid genera by the combination of the pinkish or grayish pink hymenophore, the membranous veil hanging on the pilea margin, the trichoderm-like pileus covering and the smooth basidiospores. Five species, including two new species and two new combinations, are described and illustrated. A key to the species of Veloporphyrellus also is provided.
BACKGROUND: Transgenic rice producing the insecticidal protein from Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner (Bt) is protected from damage by lepidopteran insect pests. However, one of the main concerns about Bt rice is the potential impact on non-target herbivores. In the present study, the ecological impacts of two Bt rice lines, T1C-19 expressing Cry1C protein and T2A-1 expressing Cry2A protein, on the non-target herbivore brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens (Stal), were evaluated under laboratory and field conditions. The purpose was to verify whether these Bt rice lines could affect the performance of BPH at individual and population scales. RESULTS: Laboratory results showed that most of the fitness parameters (development duration, survival rate, fecundity, fertility, amount of honeydew excreted) of BPH were not significantly affected by the two tested Bt rice lines, although the development duration of fourth-instar nymphs fed on T1C-19 was distinctly longer compared with that on T2A-1 and non-Bt rice plants. Five life-table parameters did not significantly differ among rice types. Two-year field trials also revealed no significant difference in population dynamics of BPH among rice types. CONCLUSION: It is inferred that the tested Bt rice lines are unlikely to affect the population growth of BPH.
This study was designed to examine the height-for-age z-scores (HAZ), and the prevalence of intestinal inflammation, gastrointestinal infections with parasites, and enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) in rural Panamanian children. Stool microscopy and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing for EAEC detected Giardia lamblia (32%, 32 of 100) and EAEC (13%, 11 of 87) in the study participants, respectively. Anthropometric analyses showed that those children who were > 12 months of age had lower HAZ scores (mean of -1.449) than the reference population. As a group, the children in the study 1 to 5 years of age did not show recovery from the previously mentioned decline in terms of their HAZ. The HAZ means of the children infected with G. lamblia, EAEC, and Ascaris lumbricoides were -1.49, -1.67, and -2.11, respectively. Furthermore, the study participants with A. lumbricoides and EAEC infections in the presence of lactoferrin showed another decrease of 0.19 and 0.13, respectively, in their HAZ means.
The urokinase receptor (uPAR) is a cell-surface protein that is part of an intricate web of transient and tight protein interactions that promote cancer cell invasion and metastasis. Here, we evaluate the binding and biological activity of a new class of pyrrolidinone and piperidinone compounds, along with derivatives of previously-identified pyrazole and propylamine compounds. Competition assays revealed that the compounds displace a fluorescently labeled peptide (AE147-FAM) with inhibition constant (Ki ) values ranging from 6 to 63 muM. Structure-based computational pharmacophore analysis followed by extensive explicit-solvent molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and free energy calculations suggested the pyrazole-based and piperidinone-based compounds adopt different binding modes, despite their similar two-dimensional structures. In cells, pyrazole-based compounds showed significant inhibition of breast adenocarcinoma (MDA-MB-231) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell proliferation, but piperidinone-containing compounds exhibited no cytotoxicity even at concentrations of 100 muM. One pyrazole-based compound impaired MDA-MB-231 invasion, adhesion, and migration in a concentration-dependent manner, while the piperidinone inhibited only invasion. The pyrazole derivative inhibited matrix metalloprotease-9 (gelatinase) activity in a concentration-dependent manner, while the piperidinone showed no effect suggesting different mechanisms for inhibition of cell invasion. Signaling studies further highlighted these differences, showing that pyrazole compounds completely inhibited ERK phosphorylation and impaired HIF1alpha and NF-kappaB signaling, while pyrrolidinones and piperidinones had no effect. Annexin V staining suggested that the effect of the pyrazole-based compound on proliferation was due to cell killing through an apoptotic mechanism. The compounds identified represent valuable leads in the design of further derivatives with higher affinities and potential probes to unravel the protein-protein interactions of uPAR.
The origin of fibroblasts, their proliferative activity and roles in the early stages of periodontal repair were investigated in order to better understand the periodontal healing process in furcation defects of the beagle dog after guided tissue regenerative therapy. Newly divided cells were identified by immunolocalization of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injected 1 hour prior to sacrificing the animals. At 1 and 2 weeks after creation of the defects, the lesions were occupied primarily by granulation tissue. Under this condition, periodontal ligaments (PDL) fibroblasts in a coronal portion of the remaining PDL close to wounds proliferated actively, migrated along the root surface and formed fibrous connective tissue on the surface. Similarly, the fibroblasts adjacent to the bone surface also showed proliferative activity and engaged in active formation of fibrous connective tissue on the bone surface. The majority of labeled cells in both areas were located in the extravascular area. At 3 and 4 weeks, the defects were filled with an increased amount of new connective tissue and bone. The labeled fibroblasts were preferentially found in the most coronal portion of connective tissue formed on the root surface that was in direct contact with inflamed tissue, and the collagen fibers projected into granulation tissue. In areas of active bone formation, numerous labeled fibroblasts were located in connective tissue adjacent to the newly-formed bone. However, fibroblasts in the endosteum of new bone were rarely labeled These results indicate that fibroblasts involved in periodontal repair originate primarily from both the remaining PDL and alveolar bone, and actively engage in fibrous connective tissue formation in the early stages of periodontal repair The ability of PDL fibroblasts to proliferate, migrate, and form connective tissue on the root surfaces in the early repair stages appears to play a crucial role in the formation of the PDL and cementum, and consequently, in periodontal regeneration in the absence of root resorption and ankylosis. As the formation of new connective tissue and bone continues, the precursor cells for fibroblasts and osteoblasts are supplied locally through the continued divisions of the fibroblastic cells in association with the newly-formed connective tissue. Paravascular and endosteal cells appear to be minor contributors to new cell population during furcation defect repair in the beagle dog.
Human monocytic ehrlichiosis is a recently described tick-borne infection with the rickettsial organism Ehrlichia chaffeensis. We describe a patient with documented E chaffeensis infection and multiple organ system involvement. Prominent neurologic symptoms and signs included severe headache, meningismus, and altered mental status. Additional neurologic findings included unilateral arm weakness and a Bell's palsy. Biopsy of brain and meninges demonstrated an infiltrate of atypical lymphoid cells in the leptomeninges with involvement of blood vessel walls and extension into the Virchow-Robin spaces. Bone marrow biopsy revealed fibrin-ringed granulomas. The patient also developed a nonspecific increase in immunoglobulin production. Host immune response may play a critical role in the pathophysiology of ehrlichiosis.
In the present work, we demonstrate that nucleotide can adsorb efficiently on the surface of carboxylic acid-functionalized nanoparticles and stabilize the particles against aggregation. In the present study we take magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs), manganese oxide nanoparticles (MnO), and upconversion nanophosphors (UCNPs) as models. The result shows that not only MNPs, but also other kinds of nanoparticles that have similar surface properties can be dispersed and stabilized by nucleotides. Interestingly, adenosine bearing different numbers of phosphate groups has distinct stabilizing effect. On the basis of this observation, we developed a magnetic relaxation-based enzyme assay for quantitative analysis of alkaline phosphatase. A detection limit of 0.002 U/muL for calf intestine alkaline phosphatase (CIAP) could be obtained, which is lower than the gold nanoparticle-based colorimetric method. In contrast to the conventional magnetic relaxation switches (MRSw), this assay was achieved without covalent modification and separation steps, sandwich type binding was not required as well, which would potentially expand the application of magnetic relaxation-based analysis.
Spatial heterogeneity of matrix structure can be an important determinant of tissue function. Although bulk properties of collagen structure in healing myocardial infarcts have been characterized previously, regional heterogeneity in infarct structure has received minimal attention. Herein, we quantified regional variations of collagen and nuclear orientations over the initial weeks of healing after infarction in rats, and employed a computational model of infarct remodeling to test potential explanations for the heterogeneity we observed in vivo. Fiber and cell orientation maps were generated from infarct samples acquired previously at 1, 2, 3, and 6 weeks postinfarction in a rat ligation model. We analyzed heterogeneity by calculating the dot product of each fiber or cell orientation vector with every other fiber or cell orientation vector, and plotting that dot product versus distance between the fibers or cells. This analysis revealed prominent regional heterogeneity, with alignment of both fibers and cell nuclei in local pockets far exceeding the global average. Using an agent-based model of fibroblast-mediated collagen remodeling, we found that similar levels of heterogeneity can spontaneously emerge from initially isotropic matrix via locally reinforcing cell-matrix interactions. Specifically, cells that sensed fiber orientation at a distance or remodeled fibers at a distance by traction-mediated reorientation or aligned deposition gave rise to regionally heterogeneous structures. However, only the simulations in which cells deposited collagen fibers aligned with their own orientation reproduced experimentally measured patterns of heterogeneity across all time points. These predictions warrant experimental follow-up to test the role of such mechanisms in vivo and identify opportunities to control heterogeneity for therapeutic benefit.
Twenty-seven men with laboratory-confirmed lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) were identified among 211 patients tested for LGV or chancroid during a 6-y period. The patients with LGV ranged in age from 17 to 73 y; most were from countries other than France. Twenty-five sought care because of inguinal adenopathy (with spontaneous draining fistulae in two patients) and two because of proctitis. Chlamydia trachomatis was isolated from nine patients; all isolates were the LGV biovar as demonstrated by biologic characterization and monoclonal antibody reactivity. In patients without isolation of C. trachomatis, the diagnosis was based on chlamydial complement fixation antibody titers greater than or equal to 1:32 (mean titer, 1:128). Genital herpes was an associated diagnosis in one patient and syphilis in two patients. Serologic evidence of exposure to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1 was present in five patients and to HIV-2 in one patient.
gamma-Glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) is an enzyme that plays a central role in glutathione metabolism, and acivicin is a classical inhibitor of GGT. Here, the structure of acivicin bound to Bacillus subtilis GGT determined by X-ray crystallography to 1.8 A resolution is presented, in which it binds to the active site in a similar manner to that in Helicobacter pylori GGT, but in a different binding mode to that in Escherichia coli GGT. In B. subtilis GGT, acivicin is bound covalently through its C3 atom with sp2 hybridization to Thr403 Ogamma, the catalytic nucleophile of the enzyme. The results show that acivicin-binding sites are common, but the binding manners and orientations of its five-membered dihydroisoxazole ring are diverse in the binding pockets of GGTs.
Dose-response assays and surrogate species are standard methods for risk analysis for environmental chemicals. These assume that individuals within a species have unimodal responses and that a surrogate species can predict responses of other related taxa. We exposed immature individuals of closely related aphidophagous coccinellid predators, Cycloneda sanguinea and Harmonia axyridis, to Cry1Ac and Cry1F toxins through uniform and constant artificial tritrophic exposure through Myzus persicae aphids. Both toxins were detected in coccinellid pupae, with individual and interspecific variation. Uptake was significantly higher in H. axyridis than in C. sanguinea, both in the proportion of individuals and the concentrations per individual. We also observed bimodal uptake of the Cry toxins by H. axyridis, which indicated that some individuals had low bioaccumulation and some had high bioaccumulation. This suggests that standard dose-response assays need to be interpreted with caution and future assays should examine the modality of the responses. In addition, the similarity in the biological effects of the Cry toxins in the two predators was due to different biological exposure mechanisms. The majority of H. axyridis were exposed both internally and in the gut, while C. sanguinea was exposed primarily in the gut. Thus, despite their close phylogenetic relatedness, these species would not be good surrogates for each other and the surrogate species methodology should be tested more rigorously.
STUDY DESIGN: Descriptive, prospective, longitudinal single-cohort study. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the rate of force development to 30% (RFD(30)), 50% (RFD(50)), and 90% (RFD(90)) of maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) as an adjunct outcome measure for determining readiness for return to sport following an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. BACKGROUND: One criterion of full recovery following an ACL reconstruction is the ability to achieve 85% or 90% of the maximal strength of the contralateral limb. However, the time required to develop muscular strength in many types of daily and sports activities is considerably shorter than that required to achieve maximal strength. Therefore, in addition to maximal strength, neuromuscular functions such as RFD should also be considered in the definition of recovery. METHODS: Forty-five male professional soccer players who underwent an ACL reconstruction were recruited. Assessment with the International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) Subjective Knee Evaluation Form, Tegner score, and KT1000 instrumented arthrometer was performed postinjury/prereconstruction and at 6 and 12 months after ACL reconstruction. MVIC, RFD(30), RFD(50), and RFD(90) testing was performed preinjury, as part of standard preseason assessment, and at 6 and 12 months post-ACL reconstruction. RESULTS: The average MVIC value 6 months postreconstruction was 97% of the preinjury average value. In contrast, at 6 months, the RFD(30), RFD(50), and RFD(90) values were 80% (P = .04), 77% (P = .03), and 63% (P = .007), respectively, of the preinjury values. The mean RFD values for the reconstructed knee attained or exceeded 90% of the preinjury mean values only at the 12-month post-ACL reconstruction assessment (RFD(30), P = .86; RFD(50), P = .51; RFD(90), P = .56). CONCLUSION: Despite the near recovery of MVIC strength to preinjury levels, there were still significant deficits in RFD at 6 months post-ACL reconstruction. An RFD similar to the preinjury RFD was achieved at 12 months post-ACL reconstruction, following a rehabilitation program focusing on muscle power. These results suggest that, following an ACL reconstruction, RFD criteria may be a useful adjunct outcome measure for the decision to return athletes to sports. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 2012;42(9):772-780, Epub 19 July 2012. doi:10.2519/jospt.2012.3780.
BACKGROUND: Radiation-induced skin reaction (RISR) is one of the most common and distressing side effects of radiotherapy in patients with cancer. It is featured with swelling, redness, itching, pain, breaks in skin, discomfort, and a burning sensation. There is a lack of convincing evidence supporting any single practice in the prevention or management of RISR. METHODS/DESIGNS: This double-blinded randomised controlled trial aims to investigate the effects of a natural oil-based emulsion containing allantoin (as known as Moogoo Udder Cream(R)) versus aqueous cream in reducing RISR, improving pain, itching and quality of life in this patient group. One group will receive Moogoo Udder Cream(R). Another group will receive aqueous cream. Outcome measures will be collected using patient self-administered questionnaire, interviewer administered questionnaire and clinician assessment at commencement of radiotherapy, weekly during radiotherapy, and four weeks after the completion of radiotherapy. DISCUSSION: Despite advances of radiologic advances and supportive care, RISR are still not well managed. There is a lack of efficacious interventions in managing RISR. While anecdotal evidence suggests that Moogoo Udder Cream(R) may be effective in managing RISR, research is needed to substantiate this claim. This paper presents the design of a double blind randomised controlled trial that will evaluate the effects of Moogoo Udder Cream(R) versus aqueous cream for managing in RISR in patients with cancer. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN 12612000568819.
Sasang is a Korean traditional constitutional medicine in which individuals are classified into four constitutional types: Taeyangin, Soeumin, Taeumin, and Soyangin. However, the classification of each constitution is empirical and not scientific, and so it is difficult to consistently classify patients into these four constitutional types. Acanthopanacis cortex (AC; Taeyangin), Rehmanniae radix (RR; Soyangin), Ephedra herba (EH; Taeumin), and White ginseng (WG; Soeumin) are herbal medicines that are used to treat and prevent diseases associated with these four constitutions. Therefore, AC, RR, EH, and WG extracts (ACE, RRE, EHE, and WGE) were used as reference extracts to determine constitutional differences in the immunostimulatory activities of primary immune cells isolated from the blood of 15 volunteers. Cellular proliferation, nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) protein production, TNF-alpha and interleukin-6, and inducible NO synthase mRNA expression were measured as the immunostimulatory parameters. The increase in cell proliferation of V2, V3, V8, V11, and V12 was highest in EHE-treated lymphocytes among the ACE-, RRE-, EHE- or WGE-treated lymphocytes, and increase in cellular proliferation of V4, V7, V13, V14, and V15 in RRE-treated lymphocytes was significantly better than the other three medicines. The cell proliferation of V1, V5, V6, V9, and V10 responded best to WGE among the four extracts. Results of cell proliferation and other immunostimulatory parameters showed similar trends in regard to individual differences. These extracts may be useful as reference extracts in the development of a rapid and dependable individual lymphocyte- or macrophage-based assay that aids in the Sasang constitutional classification.
Coexpression of folding accessory proteins, molecular chaperones, and human peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) increased production of active cyclodextrin glycosyltransferase (CGTase) of Bacillus macerans, which is otherwise mainly expressed as inclusion body in recombinant Escherichia coli. The best partner for soluble expression of CGTase was found to be human PPIase followed by coexpression of DnaK-DnaJ-GrpE together with GroEL-GroES. Such a significant enhancement by human PPIase coexpression seemed to be due to dual functions of chaperone and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerization. Coexpression of GroEL-GroES or minichaperone alone did not influence the specific CGTase activity. For production of active CGTase in large amounts, a high cell density culture was achieved using a pH-stat fed-batch strategy. The optimized fed-batch fermentation resulted in dry cell weight of 103.4 g/L and CGTase activity of 1200 U/mL. Combination of human PPIase expression at a gene level and cell culture optimization at a process scale exerted a synergistic effect on the product yield of soluble CGTase expression in recombinant E. coli.
BACKGROUND: In an animal model of spinal cord injury, a latent respiratory motor pathway can be pharmacologically activated via adenosine receptors to restore respiratory function after cervical (C2) spinal cord hemisection that paralyzes the hemidiaphragm ipsilateral to injury. Although spinal phrenic motoneurons immunopositive for adenosine receptors have been demonstrated (C3-C5), it is unclear if adenosine receptor protein levels are altered after C2 hemisection and theophylline administration. OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of C2 spinal cord hemisection and theophylline administration on the expression of adenosine receptor proteins. METHODS: Adenosine A1 and A2A receptor protein levels were assessed in adult rats classified as (a) noninjured and theophylline treated, (b) C2 hemisected, (c) C2 hemisected and administered theophylline orally (3x daily) for 3 days only, and (d) C2 hemisected and administered theophylline (3x daily for 3 days) and assessed 12 days after drug administration. Assessment of A1 protein levels was carried out via immunohistochemistry and A2A protein levels by densitometry. RESULTS: Adenosine A1 protein levels decreased significantly (both ipsilateral and contralateral to injury) after C2 hemisection; however, the decrease was attenuated in hemisected and theophylline-treated animals. Attenuation in adenosine A1 receptor protein levels persisted when theophylline administration was stopped for 12 days prior to assessment. Adenosine A2A protein levels were unchanged by C2 hemisection; however, theophylline reduced the levels within the phrenic motoneurons. Furthermore, the decrease in A2A levels persisted 12 days after theophylline was withdrawn. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that theophylline mitigates the effects of C2 hemisection by attenuating the C2 hemisection-induced decrease in A1 protein levels. Furthermore, A2A protein levels are unaltered by C2 hemisection but decrease after continuous or interrupted theophylline administration. The effects on protein levels may underlie the stimulant actions of theophylline.
Vitamin E has been linked to fertility since its discovery in 1922. However, the exact mechanism by which alpha-tocopherol allows pregnancy to continue until term has remained puzzling over the last 80 years. Alpha-tocopherol transfer protein (TTPA) is expressed in liver and in Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. TTPA is suggested to be responsible for the transfer of alpha-tocopherol across barrier membranes. Ttpa-knockout mice are infertile and show symptoms similar to those observed in severe vitamin E deficiency. We thus investigated TTPA expression in human placenta and whether clues from its localization in different parts of the placenta might be of functional significance. TTPA-mRNA transcripts were quantified with a fluorescent 5'-nuclease assay (TaqMan) in five different tissues. Placental expression ranged second behind that of liver. Immunohistochemistry identified TTPA in the cytosol but also in nuclei of the trophoblast and in the endothelium of the fetal capillaries. Expression in trophoblast and fetal capillaries' endothelium indicates a role of TTPA in the stereoselective transport of RRR-alpha-tocopherol from the maternal to the fetal plasma. In amnion epithelial cells, however, TTPA was predominantly located in the nuclei. Nuclear localization of the protein may represent a novel function of TTPA.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the relationship between tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) gene promoter -308 polymorphism and myasthenia gravis (MG) in Chinese and analyze secretion of TNFalpha in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in MG patients. METHODS: A biallelic polymorphism at position -308 in the promoter of TNFalpha gene was screened by PCR amplification and NcoI recognition site. One hundred and twenty-three MG cases and 115 healthy controls were included in this study. MG patients were classified to different groups according to clinical type, age at onset, and sex respectively. PBMC were isolated from 20 patients and 20 healthy controls, and then cultured in the presence or absence of phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and acetycholine receptors (AchR). The supernatants were harvested after incubation and stored until TNFalpha was assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: The frequency of TNFalpha-308 allele 2 (A) was found significantly increase in MG patients and showed a trend especially in late onset (> or =40 years) and male patients (P < 0.05). The allele A had no relationship with thymic pathogenesis in MG patients. But frequency of allele A was significantly higher in general type than in ocular type (P < 0.05). MG patients had a higher inducible level of TNFalpha by PHA and AchR, and could be down regulated after treatment. CONCLUSION: Polymorphism in TNFalpha gene promoter -308 is associated with onset of MG. The microsatellite allele TNFalpha2 confer risk for the development of MG in Chinese patients. MG patients have a higher inducible level of TNFalpha.
Endometriosis is the presence of endometrial cells and stroma at ectopic sites outside the uterine cavity. The natural history of endometriosis is uncertain, its etiology unknown, the clinical presentation inconsistent, diagnosis difficult and the treatment poorly standardized. It causes significant morbidity due to pelvic pain and infertility among 15-25% of women during their reproductive age. The benign disease causes peritoneal inflammation, fibrosis, adhesions and ovarian cysts but displays features of malignancy, like neo-vascularization, local invasion and distant metastasis. Mechanical, hormonal, immunological, environmental and genetic factors have been implicated in its etiology but provide inconclusive explanations. Present study was carried out on ectopic and eutopic endometriotic tissue specimens collected during laproscopy/laprotomy from cases of endometriosis. mRNA was isolated from the tissues and converted to cDNA by RT and subsequently subjected to differential display Polymerase Chain Reaction using seven sets of arbitrary primers. A unique band was identified only in the ectopic endometriotic tissue, which was sequenced. BLAST search results revealed sequence homology to shigella bacterial DNA leading us to hypothesize that infection may be playing a role in the etiology of endometriosis. This is the first report implicating the role of bacterial infection in the etiology of endometriosis. Shigella is known to invade the mucosa of the colon through the feco-oral route causing Shigellosis. The pathogenesis of shigellosis involves inflammation, ulceration, haemorrhage, tissue destruction and fibrosis of the colonic mucosa resulting in abdominal pain and diarrhoea/dysentery, this is similar to the pathogenesis of endometriosis which also involves inflammation, haemorrhage, tissue destruction and fibrotic adhesions of the pelvic peritoneum resulting in abdominal pain and infertility. The non-motile shigella bacteria invade the deeper mucosal layers by travelling from cell to cell of colonic epithelium, reaching the lamina propria of the colonic mucosa. We propose that, by the same mechanism, the bacteria travel across the colon wall to reach the outer peritoneal surface of the colon, which is in close proximity to the posterior uterine surface in the Pouch of Douglas, the site which incidentally happens to be the commonest site of early endometriosis. Our hypothesis therefore proposes that shigella or shigella-like organisms may be the trigger for the initiation of immunological changes in the pelvic peritoneum causing endometriosis. Once the endometrial cells are implanted at ectopic sites they are sustained by hormones and angiogenic factors. Hence "Infection hypothesis" provides a novel explanation for the etiopathogenesis of endometriosis.
The number of corners on the boundary of a closed contour is thought to be particularly critical for shape detection and discrimination. The aim of the current study was to examine the relative contribution of the number of corners and the angle between corners to shape discrimination in complex visual scenes as well as to determine the time course and neural substrates of global shape processing based on the presence or absence of these specific features. In Experiment 1, event-related potentials were recorded while participants discriminated between two radial frequency (RF) patterns with the same maximum local curvature defining corners but varying arrangements of those corners. The results showed that the angle separating corners was more critical than the overall number of corners for discrimination performance. An enhanced negativity (posterior N220) over the occipital lobe was elicited following the presentation of an RF with three modulation cycles (RF3) but not following a circle, suggesting that the posterior N220 is sensitive to variation in curvature on a contour. In Experiment 2, we confirm the primary effect of the presence of corners on the amplitude of the posterior N220 component and extend the stimuli to include shapes defined by texture. Source localization on the N170 and N220 components was conducted in Experiment 2, and a source in cortical area V4 was identified. These findings suggest that corners contain vital information for the discrimination of shapes. Additionally, this study shows that the perceptual characteristics and neuroanatomical substrates can be detected using electrophysiological measures.
AIM: To investigate the self-evaluation of upper gastrointestinal symptoms in Chinese patients. To observe the role of patients' characters, such as sex, age, education background, and clinic visits, which might affect the self-understanding of patients. METHODS: The nationwide cross-sectional questionnaire was administered to 3000 patients with upper gastrointestinal symptoms at 50 hospitals across 9 provinces in China. Questionnaire items covered four basic patients' characters and five major upper gastrointestinal symptoms. RESULTS: A total of 2799 questionnaires (response rate: 93.3%) were analyzed. Only 35.29% patients could precisely understand the definition of dyspepsia. The misunderstanding of lower-gastroenterology discomforts is the major reason leading to low accuracy rate of dyspepsia. The accuracy rate of early satiety and postprandial fullness is 37.7% and 52.27% separately; they are most interrelated and easily confused concepts to each other. The accuracy rate of heartburn is 30.02%, while the location of burning sensation is the key aspect for misunderstanding of heartburn. The self-understanding of symptoms in patients was decreased with increasing age, and enhanced with higher education background and time of clinic visits. Gender is not the independent factor. CONCLUSION: Based on the low accuracy rate of self-understanding of patients, this survey suggests that the gastroenterologists should re-evaluate the symptoms of patients during the clinical inquiry.
BACKGROUND: The failure to mount an effective DNA damage response to repair UV induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) results in an increased propensity to develop cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). High-risk patient groups, such as organ transplant recipients (OTRs) frequently exhibit field cancerization at UV exposed body sites from which multiple human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated cSCCs develop rapidly, leading to profound morbidity and increased mortality. In vitro molecular evidence indicates that HPV of genus beta-papillomavirus (beta-PV) play an important role in accelerating the early stages of skin tumorigenesis. METHODS: We investigated the effects of UV induced DNA damage in murine models of beta-PV E6 oncoprotein driven skin tumorigenesis by crossing K14-HPV8-E6wt mice (developing skin tumors after UV treatment) with K14-CPD-photolyase animals and by generating the K14-HPV8-E6-K136N mutant mouse strain. Thymine dimers (marker for CPDs) and gammaH2AX (a marker for DNA double strand breaks) levels were determined in the murine skin and organotypic skin cultures of E6 expressing primary human keratinocytes after UV-irradiation by immunohistochemistry and in cell lines by In Cell Western blotting. Phosphorylation of ATR/Chk1 and ATM were assessed in cell lines and organotypic skin cultures by Western blots and immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Skin tumor development after UV-irradiation in K14-HPV8-E6wt mice could completely be blocked through expression of CPD-photolyase. Through quantification of thymine dimers after UV irradiation in cells expressing E6 proteins with point mutations at conserved residues we identified a critical lysine in the C-terminal part of the protein for prevention of DNA damage repair and p300 binding. Whereas all K14-HPV8-E6wt animals develop skin tumors after UV expression of the HPV8-E6-K136N mutant significantly blocked skin tumor development after UV treatment. The persistence of CPDs in hyperproliferative epidermis K14-HPV8-E6wt skin resulted in the accumulation of gammaH2AX foci. DNA damage sensing was impaired in E6 positive cells grown as monolayer culture and in organotypic cultures, due to lack of phosphorylation of ATM, ATR and Chk1. CONCLUSION: We showed that cells expressing E6 fail to sense and mount an effective response to repair UV-induced DNA lesions and demonstrated a physiological relevance of E6-mediated inhibition of DNA damage repair for tumor initiation. These are the first mechanistical in vivo data on the tumorigenicity of HPV8 and demonstrate that the impairment of DNA damage repair pathways by the viral E6 protein is a critical factor in HPV-driven skin carcinogenesis.
An elderly diabetic male with pneumonia presented with multiorgan failure. He developed hypoglycemic episodes with moxifloxacin that responded only to withdrawal of moxifloxacin.
The N-linked sugar chain structures of human hepatic, intestinal, and placental alkaline phosphatases (ALPs) were studied comparatively by chromatography on various lectin columns in combination with digestion by several kinds of exoglycosidases. The sugar chain structures were organ specific. On the basis of these organ-specific structures, we investigated serum ALP using a Neu5Ac(alpha)2-->6Gal(beta)1-->4 GlcNAc-specific Trichosanthes japonica agglutinin-I (TJA-I)-Sepharose column to clarify whether the level of TJA-I-binding serum ALP activity can be used as an indicator to discriminate one form of chronic liver disease from another. Levels of TJA-I-binding ALP in serum were higher in cases of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma than in chronic hepatitis (P < 0.01). The levels of TJA-I-binding ALP in serum did not change significantly after transcatheter arterial embolization, and the amounts of TJA-I-binding ALP activity in noncancerous cirrhotic liver tissues were higher than those in cancerous liver tissues derived from hepatocellular carcinoma patients, indicating that the TJA-I-binding ALP is mainly derived from cirrhotic liver tissues rather than cancerous liver tissues. These results indicate that analysis of the levels of TJA-I-binding ALP in serum is clinically useful for differentiating liver cirrhosis from chronic hepatitis and that altered sugar chain expression in ALP occurs mainly in liver cirrhosis.
Ultra high pressure liquid chromatography (UHPLC) systems operating at very high pressures and using sub-2 microm packing columns have allowed a remarkable decrease in analysis time and increase in peak capacity, sensitivity, and reproducibility compared to conventional HPLC. This technology has rapidly been widely accepted by the analytical community and is being gradually applied to various fields of plant analysis such as QC, profiling and fingerprinting, dereplication, and metabolomics. For many applications, an important improvement of the overall performances has been reported. In this review, the basic principles of UHPLC are summarized, and practical information on the type of columns used and phase chemistry available is provided. An overview of the latest applications to natural product analysis in complex mixtures is given, and the potential and limitations as well as some new trends in the development of UHPLC are discussed.
Pyrolysis mass spectrometry (PyMS) is a rapid, simple, high-resolution analytical method based on thermal degradation of complex material in a vacuum and has been widely applied to the discrimination of closely related microbial strains. Leaf samples of six species and one variety of higher plants (Rosa multiflora, R. multiflora var. platyphylla, Sedum kamtschaticum, S. takesimense, S. sarmentosum, Hepatica insularis, and H. asiatica) were subjected to PyMS for spectral fingerprinting. Principal component analysis of PyMS data was not able to discriminate these plants in discrete clusters. However, canonical variate analysis of PyMS data separated these plants from one another. A hierarchical dendrogram based on canonical variate analysis was in agreement with the known taxonomy of the plants at the variety level. These results indicate that PyMS is able to discriminate higher plants based on taxonomic classification at the family, genus, species, and variety level.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) plays a role in male germ cell development, but the precise function is yet to be defined. This study shows that EGF stimulates rat spermatogonial proliferation in a dose-dependent manner and significantly increased the protein levels of phosphated c-Src (p-c-Src) and phosphated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3). Moreover, overexpression of c-Src tagged with enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) in rat spermatogonial stem cells enhances the cell viability. In contrast, knockdown or inhibition of c-Src inhibits rat spermatogonial stem cell proliferation; EGF could not abrogate the inhibitory effect. Evidently, the content of p-STAT3 protein was increased in c-Src-expressing cells and decreased in c-Src-suppressing cells. Furthermore, knockdown or inhibition of STAT3 also suppressed cell viability; neither EGF nor increased c-Src could reverse the inhibitory effect. These results are the first evidence that EGF induces proliferation of rat spermatogonial stem cells through c-Src/STAT3 signal.
Expression of the cytoplasmic soluble form of p53 protein in the different rat colon cancer cell lines transfected and non-transfected with Rous sarcoma virus-33 was studied. Concentrations of the p53 protein were detected by commonly used immunochemical methods after its isolation by affinity chromatography columns with the gel fiberglass membranes. The main component of tumor-associated antigens (TAA) eluted from virus-transfected cells was the 53 kDa protein in its cytoplasmic soluble fraction. The non-virogenic colon cancer cells contain a few proteins and concentration of 53 kDa protein was low. Western immunoblotting revealed that the 53 kDa protein isolated from the cell lyzates studied was distinctly recognized by the p53 MAb. ELISA showed that its concentration was markedly higher in the lyzate obtained from the highly virogenic and tumorigenic R9 cell line compared with the non-virogenic cell line RT1. We concluded that the expression of the p53 protein is related to the viral transfection of cancerous cells. The possible role of this phenomenon in the etiology of cancer is discussed.
The heterotrimeric G-protein alpha-chain G alpha q plays a critical role mediating receptor-linked activation of the beta isoforms of PLC which hydrolyse membrane inositol-containing phospholipids to generate the second messengers inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. Despite knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of two G-protein alpha-chains (G alpha t and G alpha i1) as well as high regional amino acid conservation between members of the G-protein alpha-chain family, the precise molecular domains of G alpha q mediating activation of PLC beta 1 are unknown. To map sites responsible for effector interaction we employed 188 peptides each of 15 residues and corresponding to overlapping regions of the complete G alpha q sequence. These were tested for their ability to inhibit G alpha q-dependent activation of recombinant PLC beta 1 using an in vitro reconstitution assay. Peptides from two regions of G alpha q mediated up to 100% inhibition of GTP gamma S-stimulated PLC beta 1 activity, and representative peptides from each of these regions were half-maximally effective at 69.3 +/- 27.4 microM (n = 4) (G alpha q: 251-265) and 110.0 +/- 41.9 microM (n = 4) (G alpha q: 306-319). G alpha q regions described by inhibitory peptides are conserved selectively in other G-protein alpha-chains linked to PLC beta 1 activation (G alpha 11, G alpha 14) and correspond spatially to sites of effector interaction identified in G alpha s by scanning mutagenesis and in transducin using site-specific antibodies and peptides. Computer transducin using site-specific antibodies and peptides. Computer homology modelling of G alpha q based on the crystal structure of transducin indicates that regions interacting with PLC beta 1 form two parallel alpha-helices lying at the surface of the G alpha q structure. These observations provide the first description of two regions within G alpha q critically important for activating PLC beta 1, and moreover, indicate that effector binding domains identified in transducin and G alpha s are also conserved spatially in G alpha q.
A new cytochemical technique is proposed for side by side localization of acetylcholine and of acetylcholinesterase activity of motor end-plate at ultrastructural level. The technique is based on the simultaneous "ionic fixation" of vesicular acetylcholine and of histochemical copper thiocholine precipitate with phosphomolybdic acid: the molybdic heteropolyanion forms insoluble salts with these two quaternary ammonium cations, providing in situ "acetylcholine phosphomolybdate" and "copper thiocholine phosphomolybdate". Both of them are osmium resistant; the electron dense precipitates allow for a fine localization of acetylcholine and acetylcholinesterase activity at electron microscopic level.
BACKGROUND: Polo-like kinases control multiple events during cell division, including mitotic entry, centrosome organization, spindle formation, chromosome segregation and cytokinesis. Their roles during cytokinesis, however, are not well understood because the requirement of these kinases during early stages of mitosis complicates the study of their functions after anaphase onset. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We used time-lapse microscopy to analyze the dynamics of Polo::GFP in Drosophila tissue culture cells during mitosis. After anaphase onset, Polo::GFP concentrated at the spindle midzone, but also diffused along the entire length of the central spindle. Using RNA interference we demonstrate that the microtubule-associated proteins Feo and Klp3A are required for Polo recruitment to the spindle midzone, but not the kinesin Pavarotti as previously thought. Moreover, we show that Feo and Klp3A form a complex and that Polo co-localizes with both proteins during cytokinesis. CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Our results reveal that the Feo/Klp3A complex is necessary for Polo recruitment to the spindle midzone. A similar finding has also been recently reported in mammalian cells [1], suggesting that this basic mechanism has been conserved during evolution, albeit with some differences. Finally, since cleavage furrow formation and ingression are unaffected following feo RNAi, our data imply that Polo recruitment to the central spindle is not required for furrowing, but some other aspect of cytokinesis.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) causes vascular damage to arteries; however, there are no data for its effect on veins. Our aim was to clarify the effects of dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced PCOS both on venous biomechanics and on pharmacological reactivity in a rat model and to test the possible modulatory role of vitamin D3 (vitD). PCOS was induced in female Wistar rats by DHT treatment (83 mug/day, subcutaneous pellet). After 10 wk, the venous biomechanics, norepinephrine (NE)-induced contractility, and acetylcholine-induced relaxation were tested in saphenous veins from control animals and from animals treated with DHT or DHT with vitD using pressure angiography. Additionally, the expression levels of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and cyclooxygenase (COX-2) were measured using immunohistochemistry. Increased diameter, wall thickness, and distensibility as well as decreased vasoconstriction were detected after the DHT treatment. Concomitant vitD treatment lowered the mechanical load on the veins, reduced distensibility, and resulted in vessels that were more relaxed. Although there was no difference in the endothelial dilation tested using acetylcholine (ACh), the blocking effect of N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME) was lower and was accompanied by lower COX-2 expression in the endothelium after the DHT treatment. Supplementation with vitD prevented these alterations. eNOS expression did not differ among the three groups. We conclude that the hyperandrogenic state resulted in thicker vein walls. These veins showed early remodeling and altered vasorelaxant mechanisms similar to those of varicose veins. Alterations caused by the chronic DHT treatment were prevented partially by concomitant vitD administration.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) gp120W61D-specific T cell lines (TCL) were generated from an HIV-1-seronegative volunteer who received rgp120W61D in QS21/MPL adjuvant with emulsion. TCL were challenged with pools of consecutive, overlapping peptides spanning the gp120W61D sequence and then with the individual peptides of the immunostimulatory pool. T cell epitopes were found within both variable and conserved domains, and there was no evidence of a single immunodominant epitope. The two most frequently recognized peptides were located in the C1 domain and in the C-terminal region of the V3 loop. Several TCL were shown to recognize multiple peptides from nonoverlapping regions. Peptides from both conserved and variable domains were capable of inducing MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, and RANTES production. When tested against the equivalent peptide from the HIV-1IIIB sequence, however, TCL were able to tolerate only minor conserved changes in the amino acid sequence.
BACKGROUND: Recent decades have seen an increase in our understanding of a number of pathophysiological processes associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). Despite increases in understanding and treatment options, diabetic neuropathy remains a significant problem and is associated with tremendous morbidity and mortality. In this regard, oxidative DNA damage is postulated to play a role in diabetes-mediated neuropathic pathogenesis. METHODS: In this pilot investigation, we studied the extent of chromosomal damage utilizing chromosomal aberration (CA) assay in cultured lymphocytes of patients in 3 subgroups: patients with diabetic neuropathy, patients with type 2 DM and no neuropathy, and a control group. RESULTS: The patients with diabetic neuropathy showed a statistically significantly higher rate of CA (P<0.001, 0.086 +/- 0.04) compared to the DM patients without neuropathy (0.03 +/- 0.02). Samples from subjects with diabetic neuropathy were evaluated to check for mutations in the AKR1B1 gene (exon 1). A significant number of mutations appeared after DNA sequencing within the AKR1B1 gene. Of 50 diabetic neuropathy patient samples analyzed, 10 revealed mutations. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that painful diabetic neuropathy is a condition with enhanced genomic instability characterized by increased CA and possible mutations. Exon 1 of the gene AKR1B1 showed significant mutations in patients with painful diabetic neuropathy.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), regulates the cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](cyto)) in vascular smooth muscle. Release from the SR is controlled by two intracellular receptor/channel complexes, the ryanodine receptor (RyR) and the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP(3)R). These receptors may be regulated by the accessory FK506-binding protein (FKBP) either directly, by binding to the channel, or indirectly via FKBP modulation of two targets, the phosphatase, calcineurin or the kinase, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Single portal vein myocytes were voltage-clamped in whole cell configuration and [Ca(2+)](cyto) measured using fluo-3. IP(3)Rs were activated by photolysis of caged IP(3) and RyRs activated by hydrostatic application of caffeine. KEY RESULTS: FK506 which displaces FKBP from each receptor (to inhibit calcineurin) increased the [Ca(2+)](cyto) rise evoked by activation of either RyR or IP(3)R. Rapamycin which displaces FKBP (to inhibit mTOR) also increased the amplitude of the caffeine-evoked, but reduced the IP(3)-evoked [Ca(2+)](cyto) rise. None of the phosphatase inhibitors, cypermethrin, okadaic acid or calcineurin inhibitory peptide, altered either caffeine- or IP(3)-evoked [Ca(2+)](cyto) release; calcineurin did not contribute to FK506-mediated potentiation of RyR- or IP(3)R-mediated Ca(2+) release. The mTOR inhibitor LY294002, like rapamycin, decreased IP(3)-evoked Ca(2+) release. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Ca(2+) release in portal vein myocytes, via RyR, was modulated directly by FKBP binding to the channel; neither calcineurin nor mTOR contributed to this regulation. However, IP(3)R-mediated Ca(2+) release, while also modulated directly by FKBP may be additionally regulated by mTOR. Rapamycin inhibition of IP(3)-mediated Ca(2+) release may be explained by mTOR inhibition.
A model of renal infection due to lower urinary tract obstruction and biofilm disease was constructed for the study of renal scarring by inserting glass beads coated with bacterial biofilm into the bladder of rats and then clamping the urethra. We previously reported the effect of antimicrobial therapy used in combination with the anti-inflammatory agent prednisolone to prevent renal scarring. In this study we investigated the effect of prednisolone on renal scar formation using our new model. Renal scarring could not be prevented in the group in which prednisolone was administered in the period during which the urethra was regularly being clamped. In contrast, scarring was prevented in the group that began to receive prednisolone after the period of clamping had ended. Therefore, in cases of lower urinary tract obstruction prednisolone should only be administered for the prevention of renal scarring after the obstruction has been resolved.
A key step in the triacylglycerol (TAG) biosynthetic pathway is the final acylation of diacylglycerol (DAG) by DAG acyltransferase. In silico analysis has revealed that the DCR (defective in cuticular ridges) (At5g23940) gene has a typical HX(4)D acyltransferase motif at the N-terminal end and a lipid binding motif VX(2)GF at the middle of the sequence. To understand the biochemical function, the gene was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and the purified recombinant protein was found to acylate DAG specifically in an acyl-CoA-dependent manner. Overexpression of At5g23940 in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae quadruple mutant deficient in DAG acyltransferases resulted in TAG accumulation. At5g23940 rescued the growth of this quadruple mutant in the oleate-containing medium, whereas empty vector control did not. Lipid particles were localized in the cytosol of At5g23940-transformed quadruple mutant cells, as observed by oil red O staining. There was an incorporation of 16-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid into TAG in At5g23940-transformed cells of quadruple mutant. Here we report a soluble acyl-CoA-dependent DAG acyltransferase from Arabidopsis thaliana. Taken together, these data suggest that a broad specific DAG acyltransferase may be involved in the cutin as well as in the TAG biosynthesis by supplying hydroxy fatty acid.
BACKGROUND: Metabolic syndrome (MetSy), an important predisposing factor for the most of noncommunicable diseases, has become a global pandemic. Given different definitions used for the MetSy, recently using a score termed "continuous MetSy risk score (CMetSyS)" is recommended. The aim of this study was to provide a CMetSyS in a population-based sample of Iranian adults and to assess its determinants. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the data of the baseline survey of a community trial entitled "the Isfahan health heart program." The MetSy was defined according to the Revised National Cholesterol Education Program Third Adult Treatment Panel. All probable predictive models and their predictive performance were provided using leave-one-out cross-validated logistic regression and the receiver operation characteristic curve methods. Multiple linear regression was performed to assess factors associated with the CMetSyS. RESULTS: The study population consisted of 8313 persons (49.9% male, mean age 38.54 +/- 15.86 years). The MetSy was documented in 1539 persons (21.86%). Triglycerides and waist circumference were the best predictive components, and fasting plasma glucose had the lowest area under curve (AUC). The AUC for our best model was 95.36 (94.83-95.83%). The best predictive cutoff for this risk score was -1.151 with 89% sensitivity and 87.93% specificity. CONCLUSION: We provided four population-based leave-one-out cross-validated risk score models, with moderate to perfect predictive performance to identify the MetSy in Iranian adults. The CMetSyS had significant associations with high sensitive C-reactive protein, body mass index, leisure time, and workplace physical activity as well as age and gender.
Chagas disease is the clinical manifestation of the infection produced by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. Currently there is no vaccine to prevent this disease and the protection attained with vaccines containing non-replicating parasites is limited. Genetically attenuated trypanosomatid parasites can be obtained by deletion of selected genes. Gene deletion takes advantage of the fact that this parasite can undergo homologous recombination between endogenous and foreign DNA sequences artificially introduced in the cells. This approach facilitated the discovery of several unknown gene functions, as well as allowing us to speculate about the potential for genetically attenuated live organisms as experimental immunogens. Vaccination with live attenuated parasites has been used effectively in mice to reduce parasitemia and histological damage, and in dogs, to prevent vector-delivered infection in the field. However, the use of live parasites as immunogens is controversial due to the risk of reversion to a virulent phenotype. Herein, we present our results from experiments on genetic manipulation of two T. cruzi strains to produce parasites with impaired replication and infectivity, and using the mutation of the dhfr-ts gene as a safety device against reversion to virulence.
The loss of interstitial capillaries is a feature of several experimental models of renal disease and this contributes to secondary kidney injury. Angiopoietin-1 is a secreted growth factor which binds to Tie-2 present on endothelia to enhance cell survival thereby stabilizing capillary architecture in-vitro. Previous studies showed that angiopoietin-1 prevented renal capillary and interstitial lesions following experimental ureteric obstruction. We tested here the effect of angiopoietin-1 treatment on capillary loss and associated tubulointerstitial damage known to follow recovery from folic acid-induced tubular necrosis and acute renal injury. We found that delivery of angiopoietin-1 by adenoviral vectors stabilized peritubular capillaries in folic acid nephropathy but this was accompanied by profibrotic and inflammatory effects. These results suggest that the use of endothelial growth factor therapy for kidney disease may have varying outcomes that depend on the disease model tested.
The spatial orientation of domains of the heat shock protein 70 from Plasmodium falciparum (PfHsp70) were mapped based on a three-dimensional model of the protein. Purified PfHsp70 displayed chaperone activity in vitro. Amino acid substitutions introduced in the chaperone's substrate binding cavity compromised the protein's chaperone function.
OBJECTIVE: In obesity and diabetes, myocardial fatty acid utilization and myocardial oxygen consumption (MVo(2)) are increased, and cardiac efficiency is reduced. Mitochondrial uncoupling has been proposed to contribute to these metabolic abnormalities but has not been directly demonstrated. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Oxygen consumption and cardiac function were determined in db/db hearts perfused with glucose or glucose and palmitate. Mitochondrial function was determined in saponin-permeabilized fibers and proton leak kinetics and H(2)O(2) generation determined in isolated mitochondria. RESULTS: db/db hearts exhibited reduced cardiac function and increased MVo(2). Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and lipid and protein peroxidation products were increased. Mitochondrial proliferation was increased in db/db hearts, oxidative phosphorylation capacity was impaired, but H(2)O(2) production was increased. Mitochondria from db/db mice exhibited fatty acid-induced mitochondrial uncoupling that is inhibitable by GDP, suggesting that these changes are mediated by uncoupling proteins (UCPs). Mitochondrial uncoupling was not associated with an increase in UCP content, but fatty acid oxidation genes and expression of electron transfer flavoproteins were increased, whereas the content of the F1 alpha-subunit of ATP synthase was reduced. CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that mitochondrial uncoupling in the heart in obesity and diabetes is mediated by activation of UCPs independently of changes in expression levels. This likely occurs on the basis of increased delivery of reducing equivalents from beta-oxidation to the electron transport chain, which coupled with decreased oxidative phosphorylation capacity increases ROS production and lipid peroxidation.
Vital dye staining has long been used to assess viability of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts, with staining and enumeration in suspension. Some recent studies, however, have dried samples to microscope slides prior to staining. Here we demonstrate that this approach may considerably underestimate parasite viability in the original sample.
Nuclear migration is required for normal development in both higher and lower eukaryotes. In fungi this process is mediated by cytoplasmic dynein. It is believed that this motor protein is anchored to the cell membrane and moves nuclei by capturing and pulling on spindle pole body microtubules. To date, four genes have been identified and shown to be required for this process in Aspergillus nidulans. The nudA and nudG genes, respectively, encode the heavy and light chains of cytoplasmic dynein, and the nudF and nudC gene products encode proteins of 49 and 22 kDa. The precise biochemical functions of the nudF and nudC genes have not yet been identified. In this report we further investigate NUDC protein function by deleting the nudC gene. Surprisingly, although deletion of nudA and nudF affect nuclear migration, deletion of nudC profoundly affected the morphology and composition of the cell wall. Spores of the strain deleted for nudC grew spherically and lysed. The thickness of the cell wall was increased in the deletion mutant and wall polymer composition was abnormal. This phenotype could be repressed by growth on osmotically buffered medium at low temperature. Similar, but less severe, effects were also noted in a strain depleted for NUDC by down-regulation. These results suggest a possible relationship between fungal cell wall biosynthesis and nuclear migration.
PURPOSE: Mutations in the tumor suppressor gene BAP1 occur in approximately 15% of clear cell renal cell carcinoma cases. Sequencing efforts demonstrated worse outcomes in patients with BAP1 mutated clear cell renal cell carcinoma. We investigated the clinicopathological significance and oncologic outcomes of BAP1 loss using a previously validated immunohistochemical assay. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Immunohistochemistry for BAP1 was performed on tissue microarray sections from 559 nonmetastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma cases treated with nephrectomy at multiple institutions. The association of BAP1 expression with clinicopathological parameters was analyzed using the Wilcoxon rank sum and Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel tests. Survival was assessed by Cox regression analysis, which also identified independent predictors of time dependent outcomes. RESULTS: At a median followup of 50 months (range 0 to 183) 86 of 483 patients (17.8%) experienced recurrence and 121 of 559 (21.6%) had died. BAP1 was negative in 82 of 559 tumors (14.7%). BAP1 loss was associated with adverse clinicopathological variables, including high Fuhrman grade (p <0.0001), advanced pT stage (p = 0.0021), sarcomatoid dedifferentiation (p = 0.0001) and necrosis (p <0.0001). Cox regression revealed that patients with BAP1 negative tumors had significantly worse disease-free survival (HR 2.9, 95% CI 1.8-4.7, p <0.0001) and overall survival (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.3-3.1, p = 0.0010) than patients with BAP1 positive tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Immunohistochemistry for BAP1 serves as a powerful marker to predict poor oncologic outcomes and adverse clinicopathological features in patients with nonmetastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma. BAP1 assessment using immunohistochemistry on needle biopsy may benefit preoperative risk stratification and guide treatment planning in the future.
1. Immunohistochemical, immunoblotting and release experiments were performed on ileum from control rats, from 8-week streptozotocin-diabetic rats and from diabetic rats after acute application of insulin in vitro. 2. There was an increase in vasoactive-intestinal-polypeptide-like and a decrease in calcitonin-gene-related-peptide-like immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus of the diabetic rat ileum, although electrically evoked release of both peptides from enteric nerves was defective. Acute application of insulin in vitro reversed the defective release and changes in immunoreactivity of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and calcitonin-gene-related peptide seen in the enteric nerves of streptozotocin-diabetic rat ileum. 3. In addition, using a monoclonal neurofilament antibody RT 97 that recognizes a phosphorylated neurofilament epitope present in normal enteric nerves, it was shown that this phosphorylated neurofilament epitope was absent in diabetic nerves, even though a polyclonal neurofilament antibody revealed that neurofilaments were present in both axons and cell bodies of the myenteric plexus of diabetic rat ileum. After only 2 h of insulin incubation in vitro, the phosphorylated neurofilament epitope was again present in the nerves. 4. It is suggested that the abnormal distribution of phosphorylated neurofilaments and defective storage and release of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and calcitonin-gene-related peptide in the present study may be a more general feature of diabetes. The restoration of these abnormalities by continuous acute insulin application in vitro shown here suggests that the availability of a steady level of insulin might prevent some of the changes which occur in early stages of diabetes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sporadic persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI) or nesidioblastosis is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by profound hypoglycemia due to inappropriate hypersecretion of insulin. An important diagnostic goal is to distinguish patients with a focal hyperplasia of islet cells of the pancreas (FoPHHI) from those with a diffuse abnormality of islets (DiPHHI) because management strategies differ significantly. 16 infants with sporadic PHHI resistant to diazoxide and who underwent pancreatectomy were investigated. Selective pancreatic venous sampling coupled with peroperative surgical examination and analysis of extemporaneous frozen sections allowed us to identify 10 cases with FoPHHI and 6 cases with DiPHHI. We show here that in cases of FoPHHI, but not those of DiPHHI, there was specific loss of maternal alleles of the imprinted chromosome region 11p15 in cells of the hyperplastic area of the pancreas but not in normal pancreatic cells. This somatic event is consistent with a proliferative monoclonal lesion. It involves disruption of the balance between monoallelic expression of several maternally and paternally expressed genes. Thus, we provide the first molecular explanation of the heterogeneity of sporadic forms of PHHI such that it is possible to perform only partial pancreatectomy, limited to the focal somatic lesion, so as to avoid iatrogenic diabetes in patients with focal adenomatous hyperplasia.
We have cloned, sequenced and disrupted the KRE2 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, identified by killer-resistant mutants with a defective cell wall receptor for the toxin. The KRE2 gene is close to PHO8 on chromosome 4, and encodes a predicted 49-kD protein, Kre2p, that probably enters the secretory pathway. Haploid cells carrying a disruption of the KRE2 locus grow more slowly than wild-type cells at 30 degrees, and fail to grow at 37 degrees. At 30 degrees, kre2 mutants showed altered N-linked glycosylation of proteins, as the average size of N-linked outer chains was reduced. We identified two other genes, YUR1 on chromosome 10, and KTR1 on chromosome 15, whose predicted products share 36% identity with Kre2p over more than 300 amino acid residues. Yur1p has an N-terminal signal sequence like Kre2p, while Ktr1p has a predicted topology consistent with a type 2 membrane protein. In all cases the conserved regions of these proteins appear to be on the lumenal side of secretory compartments, suggesting related function. KRE2, KTR1 and YUR1 define a new yeast gene family.
To investigate whether plasmid-free cells of pathogenic Escherichia coli can be isolated by disrupting a single gene in an endogenous plasmid without further treatment, the effect of the disruption of partitioning genes on the inheritance of the endogenous plasmid pUTI89 of the uropathogenic E. coli strain UTI89 was studied. We found that mutation of parB, which encodes a type Ib partitioning protein, could cause loss of the endogenous plasmid at a ratio of about 1%. Clones derived from parB mutants, identified by antibiotic sensitivity, were all plasmid free. Plasmid instability caused by the parB mutation was found to correlate with a negative effect on host cell growth. Thus, in this pathogenic E. coli, an endogenous plasmid as large as 114 kbp could be cured effectively by targeting a single type Ib partitioning gene followed by passaging, which may facilitate further investigations on the function of endogenous plasmids in their natural hosts.
Cells have to cope with stressful conditions and adapt to changing environments. Heat stress, heavy metal ions or UV stress induce damage to cellular proteins and disturb the balanced status of the proteome. The adjusted balance between folded and folding proteins, called protein homoeostasis, is required for every aspect of cellular functionality. Protective proteins called chaperones are expressed under extreme conditions in order to prevent aggregation of cellular proteins and safeguard protein quality. These chaperones co-operate during de novo folding, refolding and disaggregation of damaged proteins and in many cases refold them to their functional state. Even under physiological conditions these machines support protein homoeostasis and maintain the balance between de novo folding and degradation. Mutations generating unstable proteins, which are observed in numerous human diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and cystic fibrosis, also challenge the protein quality control system. A better knowledge of how the protein homoeostasis system is regulated will lead to an improved understanding of these diseases and provide potential targets for therapy.
OBJECTIVES: Out-hospital Cardiac arrest is considered as a global disease, which causes high rate of morbidity and mortality. Although, the return of spontaneous circulation occurs in 10 to 60 percent of cases in OHCA, with variety of treatment, the most patients faced with multiple organ failure and ultimately death. The investigations demonstrated that endogenous vasopressin levels in patients with successful resuscitation is more than died patients. Therefore, it seems the administration of vasopressin during cardiopulmonary resuscitation could be useful. The current study aimed to investigate the administration of vasopressin and epinephrine on neurological surviving of cardiac-respiratory arrest via evaluation of S100b serum factor. METHODS: For this reasons, after collecting of sera from two vasopressin-epinephrine and epinephrine receiving patients, sera were subjected for ELISA to evaluate S100b. RESULTS: The findings demonstrated that the great reductions of S100b in sera of patients that receiving vasopressinepinephrine in comparison with those patients that only got the epinephrine. Although no significant difference was observed between two groups, but survival rates after hospital discharge in group that receiving vasopressin-epinephrine was significantly higher than those patients that only got only epinephrine. CONCLUSION: Today, no advantages of vasopressin over epinephrine have been observed in clinical trials and more studies needed to improve the OHAC patient's surveillance. But, The combination vasopressin-epinephrine in the current study demonstrated that efficacy of this combination should be noted.
Glycoproteins play important roles in various cellular events and their presence in appropriate locations in proper active conformations is essential for many biochemical functions. Recent evidences suggest that some glycoproteins may require sorting receptors for efficient exit from the endoplasmic reticulum. These receptors need the presence of calcium or other metal ions for their native activity. The three-dimensional structure of such a receptor, p58/ERGIC-53, has been recently solved by x-ray crystallography, which is a mannose-selective lectin and contains two Ca(2+) ions. Homology search in the sequence databases indicates a large number of proteins which bear varying degrees of homology in a wide spectrum of species with this receptor. In this study we have systematically searched for such genes which are potential candidates for acting as mannose-mediated glycoprotein receptors in various species as initially inferred from their amino acid sequence homology. Structures of a number of proteins have been predicted using knowledge-based homology modeling, and their ability to act as the glycoprotein receptor has been explored by examining the nature of sugar-binding site. Tetramer of mannose was docked in the binding pockets of the modeled structures followed by energy minimization and molecular dynamics to obtain most probable structures of the complexes. Properties of these modeled complexes were studied to examine the nature of physicochemical forces involved in the complex formation and compared with p58/ERGIC-53-mannose complex.
Controlled regulation of genomic DNA synthesis is a universally conserved process for all herpesviruses, including human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), and plays a key role in viral pathogenesis, such as persistent infections. HCMV UL105 is believed to encode the helicase of the DNA replication machinery that needs to localize in the nuclei, the site of viral DNA synthesis. No host factors that interact with UL105 have been identified. In this study, we show that UL105 specifically interacts with Snapin, a human protein that is predominantly localized in the cytoplasm and associated with cellular vesicles. UL105 was found to interact with Snapin in both the yeast two-hybrid screen and coimmunoprecipitation experiments in HCMV-infected cells. The nuclear and cytoplasmic levels of UL105 were decreased and increased in cells overexpressing Snapin, respectively, while the levels of UL105 in the nuclei and cytoplasm were increased and decreased in cells in which the expression of Snapin was downregulated with anti-Snapin small interfering RNA (siRNA) molecules, respectively. Furthermore, viral DNA synthesis and progeny production were decreased in cells overexpressing Snapin and increased in the anti-Snapin siRNA-treated cells, respectively. Our results provide the first direct evidence to suggest that Snapin interacts with UL105 and alters its cellular distribution, leading to modulation of viral DNA synthesis and progeny production. Our study further suggests that modulation of the cellular distribution of viral helicase by Snapin may represent a possible mechanism for regulating HCMV genomic DNA synthesis, a key step during herpesvirus lytic and persistent infections.
By reverse phase PCR and Northern blotting, RNA of the 14 kDa galactose-binding protein (galectin-1) could be identified in primary cultures of human tubular epithelial cells. To assess protein synthesis and the possible function of galectin-1 on TEC, the cellular proteins were biosyntheticically labeled with [34S]-methionine and absorbed to immobilized laminin. Multiple radiolabeled proteins were eluted, a strong band in the area of 14 kDa was seen, coinciding with the galectin-1 band as identified by Western blotting. Surface expression of galectin-1 was seen by cytofluorometry with two different polyclonal antibodies to galectin-1. These data are in line with the finding that tubular epithelial cells adhere to laminin, partly in a Ca(2+)-independent manner.
Shootin1 is a brain-specific cytoplasmic protein involved in neuronal polarity formation and axon outgrowth. It accumulates at the leading edge of axonal growth cones, where it mediates the mechanical coupling between F-actin retrograde flow and cell adhesions as a clutch molecule, thereby producing force for axon outgrowth. In this study, we report a novel splicing isoform of shootin1 which is expressed not only in the brain but also in peripheral tissues. We have renamed the brain-specific shootin1 as shootin1a and termed the novel isoform as shootin1b. Immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses with a shootin1b-specific antibody revealed that shootin1b is distributed in various mouse tissues including the lung, liver, stomach, intestines, spleen, pancreas, kidney and skin. Interestingly, shootin1b immunoreactivity was widely detected in epithelial cells that constitute simple and stratified epithelia; in some cells, it colocalized with E-cadherin and cortactin at cell-cell contact sites. Shootin1b also localized in dendritic cells in the spleen. These results suggest that shootin1b may function in various peripheral tissues including epithelial cells.
BACKGROUND: Carrageenan is a linear sulphated polysaccharide extracted from red seaweed of the Rhodophyceae family. It has broad spectrum of applications in biomedical and biopharmaceutical field. In this study, we determined the cytotoxicity of degraded and undegraded carrageenan in human intestine (Caco-2; cancer and FHs 74 Int; normal) and liver (HepG2; cancer and Fa2N-4; normal) cell lines. METHODS: Food grade k-carrageenan (FGKC), dried sheet k-carrageenan (DKC), commercial grade k-carrageenan (CGKC), food grade i-carrageenan (FGIC) and commercial grade i-carrageenan (CGIC) were dissolved in hydrochloric acid and water to prepare degraded and undegraded carrageenan, respectively. Carrageenan at the concentration range of 62.5 - 2000.0 mug mL(-1) was used in the study. MTT assay was used to determine the cell viability while the mode of cell death was determined by May-Grunwald Giemsa (MGG) staining, acridine orange-ethidium bromide (AO/EtBr) staining, agarose gel electrophoresis and gene expression analysis. RESULTS: Degraded FGKC, DKC and CGKC showed IC50 in 24, 48 and 72 hours treated Caco-2, FHs 74 Int, HepG2 and Fa2N-4 cell lines as tested by MTT assay. Degraded FGIC and CGIC only showed its toxicity in Fa2N-4 cells. The characteristics of apoptosis were demonstrated in degraded k-carrageenan treated Caco-2, FHs 74 Int, HepG2 and Fa2N-4 cells after MGG staining. When Caco-2 and HepG2 cells were undergone AO/EtBr staining, chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation were clearly seen under the microscope. However, DNA ladder was only found in HepG2 cells after gel electrophoresis analysis. Degraded k-carrageenan also inactivated PCNA, Ki-67 and survivin gene in HepG2. On the other hand, undegraded FGKC, DKC, CGKC, FGIC and CGIC treated cells showed no cytotoxic effect after analyzed by the same analyses as in degraded carrageenan. CONCLUSION: Degraded k-carrageenan inhibited cell proliferation in Caco-2, FHs 74 Int, HepG2 and Fa2N-4 cell lines and the anti-proliferative effect was related to apoptosis together with inactivation of cell proliferating genes as determined by morphological observation and molecular analysis. However, no cytotoxic effect was found in undegraded carrageenan towards normal and cancer intestine and liver cell lines.
Production of complex extracellular polysaccharides (EPSs) by the nitrogen-fixing soil bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti is required for efficient invasion of root nodules on the host plant alfalfa. Any one of three S. meliloti polysaccharides, succinoglycan, EPS II, or K antigen, can mediate infection thread initiation and extension (root nodule invasion) on alfalfa. Of these three polysaccharides, the only symbiotically active polysaccharide produced by S. meliloti wild-type strain Rm1021 is succinoglycan. The expR101 mutation is required to turn on production of symbiotically active forms of EPS II in strain Rm1021. In this study, we have determined the nature of the expR101 mutation in S. meliloti. The expR101 mutation, a spontaneous dominant mutation, results from precise, reading frame-restoring excision of an insertion sequence from the coding region of expR, a gene whose predicted protein product is highly homologous to the Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae RhiR protein and a number of other homologs of Vibrio fischeri LuxR that function as receptors for N-acylhomoserine lactones (AHLs) in quorum-sensing regulation of gene expression. S. meliloti ExpR activates transcription of genes involved in EPS II production in a density-dependent fashion, and it does so at much lower cell densities than many quorum-sensing systems. High-pressure liquid chromatographic fractionation of S. meliloti culture filtrate extracts revealed at least three peaks with AHL activity, one of which activated ExpR-dependent expression of the expE operon.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of two different approaches of dual-task training and executive training on pattern of gait in older adults with balance impairment. METHODS: Thirty older adults with the mean age of 73.8 participated in the study. They scored 52 or less on the Berg Balance Scale (BBS), and walked with a self-selected gait speed of 1.1m/s or less. Participants were randomly assigned to one of the three groups: experimental group one (cognitive dual-task (CDT) training) that focused on gait performance under dual task condition; experimental group two (executive function (EF) training) who underwent 3 types of training on working memory, inhibition, speed of processing; and a control group. Subjects walked 10 m, under single-task and dual-task (DT) conditions where kinematics parameters were recorded. Participants in experimental groups received 45-min training sessions, 3 times a week for 8 weeks. The data obtained was analyzed using repeated measure at a criterion p-value of 0.05. RESULTS: The results showed that after training, changes of walking speed, length of stride and step, times of stride, step, single support, and double support, were significant at p<0.05. Asymmetry index in walking with dual task condition increased significantly, but after training asymmetry in DT condition decreased significantly in EF group. CONCLUSIONS: Both training groups showed improvements in gait parameters in the post test compared with that in the control group; however, in EF training group, symmetry of limbs and inter-coordination, improved more than that in CDT group.
The transient kinetics of the reaction of the estrogen binding protein (EBP1) from Candida albicans in which hydride is transferred from NADPH to trans-2-hexenal (HXL) in two half-reactions were analyzed using UV-visible spectrophotometric and fluorometric stopped-flow techniques. The simplest model of the first half-reaction involves four steps including very rapid, tight binding (K(d) </= 50 nM) characterized by loss of NADPH fluorescence, subsequent rapid formation of a charge-transfer complex between NADPH and oxidized enzyme-bound flavin mononucleotide (FMN) cofactor, followed by rate-limiting reduction of the FMN, and finally dissociation of the oxidized pyridine nucleotide. The UV-visible absorbance behavior of this half-reaction is described by two apparent phases, with k(f)(obs) = 355 +/- 6 and k(s)(obs) = 3.30 +/- 0.03 s(-)(1), for the fast and slow phases, respectively. The reaction has also been evaluated in terms of the full, multi-equilibrium reaction scheme, and microscopic rate constants that lead to the observed behavior have been determined through convergent experimental techniques and computer simulation. Significant intrinsic kinetic isotope effects were noted on both the bond cleavage step and the preceding formation of the charge-transfer complex. The enzyme is reoxidized by transfer of hydride from the FMN to HXL in the second half-reaction that appears to consist of substrate binding to form a Michaelis-type complex and the subsequent chemical step. Characterization of the reaction in this simple manner allows determination of an apparent K(d) = 100 +/- 9 microM for the reduced enzyme.HXL complex.
Breast cancer survivors are at increased risk for cognitive dysfunction, which reduces quality of life. Neuroimaging studies provide critical insights regarding the mechanisms underlying these cognitive deficits as well as potential biologic targets for interventions. We measured several metabolite concentrations using (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy as well as cognitive performance in 19 female breast cancer survivors and 17 age-matched female controls. Women with breast cancer were all treated with chemotherapy. Results indicated significantly increased choline (Cho) and myo-inositol (mI) with correspondingly decreased N-acetylaspartate (NAA)/Cho and NAA/mI ratios in the breast cancer group compared to controls. The breast cancer group reported reduced executive function and memory, and subjective memory ability was correlated with mI and Cho levels in both groups. These findings provide preliminary evidence of an altered metabolic profile that increases our understanding of neurobiologic status post-breast cancer and chemotherapy.
Synchronization methods are used to obtain higher fertility when artificial insemination (AI) is applied to lactating rabbit does. The most common methods are eCG administration or temporary doe-litter separation. Nevertheless, drawbacks have been reported, such as negative side effects of hormonal treatment in the doe and low litter growth due to absence of suckling, respectively. Recently, improved reproductive performance (without visible consequences on young rabbit growth), has been obtained by applying a 2-day controlled nursing method before AI, by allowing for a 10 min nursing of the litter 24 h of separation. The present study was undertaken to examine the pituitary (PRL, LH, FSH) and the ovarian response (follicle size and number) to those methods. A total of 442 lactating does inseminated on day 11 post-partum were distributed in three experimental groups: 2CN (closing of nest box on day 9, controlled nursing on days 10 and 11), eCG (20 IU administered on day 9 post-partum) and CONTROL (untreated). Blood samples were obtained from 10 does per group at 48, 24 and 0 h before AI, and 1h after AI. Both 2CN and eCG treatments similarly improved sexual receptivity (76.3, 77.5 and 58.2%, respectively; P<0.001) and fertility (63.1, 64.1 and 48.4%, respectively; P<0.05) in lactating does, compared to the CONTROL group. Similar plasma FSH levels in all groups of does and sampling times were observed. Due to the absence of suckling, plasma concentration of PRL on day 10 post-partum in the 2CN group was lower than in the CONTROL group (P<0.05); this endocrine change in PRL levels could explain the better reproductive performances obtained with 2CN treatment. At 1h after exogenous administration of GnRH (at the moment of AI) a high LH response was observed in all groups (P<0.001). Ovaries from 20 rabbits treated in the same way but uninseminated (2CN, n=10; eCG, n=5; CONTROL, n=5 does) were obtained on day 11 post-partum in order to check the morphometric status (weight, width and height) and to make histological and immunohistochemical studies to detect growth hormone receptor (GH-R). As a result, synchronization methods did not show any significant difference in relation to the CONTROL group. However, a small increase in the number of primary follicles was evidenced in the 2CN group with respect to the eCG group, similarly to the CONTROL group (23.0+/-3.7, 9.4+/-4.9 and 14.8+/-4.92 primary follicles, respectively; P=0.1). GH-R immunostaining-presence was more evident in the 2CN and the eCG groups, including primordial follicles and oocytes themselves. Thus, there could have been some direct effects of GH on follicular development, as described in other species. Some ovarian parameters described open new ways to study intra-ovarian mechanism of follicular development in the post-partum period of rabbit does.
PURPOSE: We describe the establishment and preliminary characterization of a cell line designated SCRC-1, which was derived from a primary renal small cell carcinoma. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Continuous cultures of a primary stage IVa renal small cell carcinoma and a xenograft in nude mice derived therefrom were characterized by immunohistology, electron microscopy, immunofluorescence/flow cytometry, cytogenetic analysis, and an in vitro drug resistance assay. RESULTS: SCRC-1 cells were reactive with antibodies to NSE, chromogranin-A, bombesin, Bcl-2, CD44s, CD44v6, CD44v7 to 8, vimentin and S100 protein (predominantly beta-subunit), and were unreactive with antibodies to EMA, CD54, EGFR(R1), URO-5, URO-7, URO-8 and URO-10. A similar immunoprofile was also found in both the primary tumor and the xenograft. Cytogenetic analysis revealed the following common clonal aberrations in all 50 metaphases analyzed: 45, XX, t (X;10;18) (p11;p11;q11), -der(18)t(X;10;18), indicating the clonal nature of this neoplasm. SCRC-1 cells showed low drug resistance to cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, gemcitabine and fluorouracil, intermediate resistance to carmustine and mitomycin-C, and extreme resistance to cisplatin. CONCLUSION: We have documented the initial characterization of SCRC-1, which may be the first cell line reported to be derived from a primary small cell carcinoma of the kidney. This cell line can be used for further studies uncovering the biology and histogenesis of this rare cancer and delineating differences among small cell carcinomas of the kidney and other histological types.
Biotransformation in the liver plays an important role in determining the pharmacokinetic profile of drugs and food components. Current in vitro platforms for testing the liver metabolism suffers from the lack of resemblance to the human liver metabolism, mainly due to the lost metabolic activity of cultured hepatocytes and the absence of transport phenomena that occurs in the liver tissue. Here we report a microfluidic device with liver microsome encapsulated in 3-D hydrogel matrix, which can mimic the metabolism reaction and the transport phenomena in the liver. Photopolymerization of poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (PEG-DA) allows controlling the mass transfer with matrix sizes, and a gravity-induced passive flow can reproduce the blood flow through the liver. We measured the reaction kinetics of P450 enzymes in the device, and simulated the convection-diffusion-reaction characteristics inside the device with a mathematical model. Combination of mathematical analytical tool and the experimental tool allowed us to analyze and optimize the reaction kinetics inside the microfluidic chip. This novel in vitro platform can serve as a tool for screening the liver metabolism of various compounds.
Cyclins are cell cycle regulatory proteins. We compared the concurrent kinetics of apoptosis and cyclin expression between HIV-infected cells (J1.1), and uninfected Jurkat cells. Cells were cultured with TNF-alpha and harvested at 24, 48 and 72 hr to examine cyclin expression and DNA content. We found a decline in the levels of the mitotic B cyclin in Jurkat cells (16 to 2%, 48 hr), while in J1.1 cells it was observed in cyclin E (60 to 37%, 72 hr). Because cyclin B is mitotic, results suggest that Jurkat cells undergo apoptosis at G2, while J1.1 cells enter mitosis and then die by apoptosis, as no changes in cyclin B or DNA content at G2M were observed. G1 cyclin E decline in J1.1 cells also suggests that they die after entering mitosis. Based on differences in the cyclins involved, it seems that HIV-1 manipulates the cell cycle to protect J1.1 cells from apoptosis induction at G2, a critical cell cycle phase for HIV replication. Thus, cyclins are useful to characterize points in the cell cycle at which apoptosis is induced, and could become excellent tools to evaluate mechanisms of action of antiretroviral drugs in the cell cycle of HIV-infected cells.
Replication of the streptococcal plasmid pLS1 is controlled by two plasmid-encoded gene products: the repressor protein CopG and the antisense RNA, RNA II. Two different mutants in rnaII have been isolated. The 5'-end and the levels of RNA II synthesized by pneumococcal cells harbouring the wild-type pLS1 or mutant plasmids (affected in either genes copG or rnaII) were analysed. One of the rnaII mutants exhibited a high-copy-number phenotype, whereas an in vitro-constructed mutation, which affects the -10 region of the rnaII promoter, resulted in plasmids lacking copy-number phenotype. The latter mutation had a pleiotropic effect: It abolished RNA II synthesis, but it also affected the initiation of translation signals of the gene encoding the RepB initiator protein. Transcriptional and translational fusions, together with in vitro inhibition of RepB synthesis by specific oligonucleotides, showed translational inhibition of RepB synthesis by RNA II, perhaps by directly blocking the accessibility of the ribosomes to the repB initiation of translation signals.
We have previously shown that Regulator of Calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) regulates multiple stages of vesicle exocytosis. However, the mechanisms by which RCAN1 affects secretory vesicle exocytosis and quantal release kinetics remain unknown. Here, we use carbon fibre amperometry to detect exocytosis from chromaffin cells and identify these underlying mechanisms. We observe reduced exocytosis with repeated stimulations in chromaffin cells over-expressing RCAN1 (RCAN1(ox)), but not in wild-type (WT) cells, indicating a negative effect of RCAN1 on vesicle recycling and endocytosis. Acute exposure to calcineurin inhibitors, cyclosporine A and FK-506, replicates this effect in WT cells but has no additional effect in RCAN1(ox) cells. When we chronically expose WT cells to cyclosporine A and FK-506 we find that catecholamine release per vesicle and pre-spike foot (PSF) signal parameters are decreased, similar to that in RCAN1(ox) cells. Inhibiting calcineurin activity in RCAN1(ox) cells has no additional effect on the amount of catecholamine release per vesicle but further reduces PSF signal parameters. Although electron microscopy studies indicate these changes are not because of altered vesicle number or distribution in RCAN1(ox) cells, the smaller vesicle and dense core size we observe in RCAN1(ox) cells may underlie the reduced quantal release in these cells. Thus, our results indicate that RCAN1 most likely affects vesicle recycling and quantal release kinetics via the inhibition of calcineurin activity.
Based on Escherichia coli, highly sensitive specific lux-biosensors for the detection of tetracycline and beta-lactam antibiotics, quinolones, and aminoglycosides have been obtained. To make biosensors, bacteria were used that contained fungal plasmids pTetA'::lux, pAmpC'::lux, pColD'::lux, and plbpA'::lux, in which transcription of the reporter Photorhabdus luminescens luxCDABE genes occurred from the inducible promoters of the tetA, ampC, cda, and ibpA genes, respectively. The main parameters (threshold sensitivity and response time) of lux-biosensors were measured. The high specificity of biosensors responding only to antibiotics of a certain type was demonstrated.
Hexokinase 1 from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtHXK1) plays a dual role in glycolysis and sugar sensing for vital metabolic and physiological processes. The uncoupling of glucose signalling from glucose metabolism was demonstrated by the analysis of two mutants (AtHXK1(G104D) and AtHXK1(S177A)) that are catalytically inactive but still functional in signalling. In this study, substrate-binding experiments indicate that the two catalytically inactive mutants have a high affinity for glucose, and an ordered substrate-binding mechanism has been observed for wild-type AtHXK1. The structure of AtHXK1 was determined both in its inactive unliganded form and in its active glucose-bound form at resolutions of 1.8 and 2.0 A, respectively. These structures reveal a domain rearrangement of AtHXK1 upon glucose binding. The 2.1 A resolution structure of AtHXK1(S177A) in the glucose-bound form shows similar glucose-binding interactions as the wild type. A glucose-sensing network has been proposed based on these structures. Taken together, the results provide a structural explanation for the dual functions of AtHXK1.
The effect of kappa/beta-carrageenan from red alda Tichocarpus crinitus on the development of a potato virus X (PVX) infection in the leaves of Datura stramonium L. has been studied. The treatment of leaves with carrageenan stimulates a protein synthesis in the cells, causing an increase in the size of nucleoli and in the number of mitochondria and membranes of the granular endoplasmic reticulum. At the same time, such treatment slightly stimulates lytic processes, causing an increase in the number of agranular endoplasmic reticulum cisterns, dictyosomes, and cytoplasmic vacuoles and the formation of cytoplasmic zones, transparent to electron microscopy. The carrageenan-induced stimulation of lytic processes results in the destruction of viral particles and can be considered as one of the defense mechanisms, preventing the intracellular accumulation of viruses. The carrageenan-stimulated formation of PVX-specific laminar structures, able to bind viral particles and, therefore, prevent their intracellular translocation and reproduction, represents another carrageenan-induced mechanism of the antiviral defense in plant cells.
Renal transplantation has transformed the life of patients with end-stage renal disease and other chronic kidney disorders by returning endogenous kidney function and enabling patients to cease dialysis. Several clinical indicators of graft outcome and long-term function have been established. Although rising creatinine levels and graft biopsy can be used to determine graft loss, identifying early predictors of graft function will not only improve our ability to predict long-term graft outcome but importantly provide a window of opportunity to therapeutically intervene to preserve graft function before graft failure has occurred. Since understanding the importance of matching genetic variation at the HLA region between donors and recipients and translating this into clinical practise to improve transplant outcome, much focus has been placed on trying to identify additional genetic predictors of transplant outcome/function. This review will focus on how candidate gene studies have identified variants within immunosuppression, immune response, fibrotic pathways, and specific ethnic groups, which correlate with graft outcome. We will also discuss the challenges faced by candidate gene studies, such as differences in donor and recipient selection criteria and use of small data sets, which have led to many genes failing to be consistently associated with transplant outcome. This review will also look at how recent advances in our understanding of and ability to screen the genome are starting to provide new insights into the mechanisms behind long-term graft loss and with it the opportunity to target these pathways therapeutically to ultimately increase graft lifespan and the associated benefits to patients.
Forty-five strains of lactic acid bacteria were isolated from poultry feces sampled from an industrial farm located in the Nantes area (France), and most of them belong to the Streptococcus or Lactobacillus genus according to the results obtained by Galerie API and molecular methods. The most representative lactic acid bacteria strains were screened for antibacterial compound production against 2 indicator organisms (Listeria innocua F and Campylobacter jejuni 11168) by means of the agar diffusion test. Strain S37, identified as Enterococcus faecalis, exhibited a clear anti-listerial activity and a slight anti-Campylobacter activity, whereas strain S42, identified as Lactobacillus reuteri, exhibited only anti-Campylobacter activity. Regarding the results of proteolytic, heat, and neutralizing treatments of supernatants from the aforementioned strains, we can conclude that antagonism observed is attributed to antimicrobial peptide or bacteriocin in the case of strain S37, whereas it is ascribable to a nonbacteriocin, likely a reuterin, in the case of strain S42.
Paclitaxel (PTX) is a microtubule-stabilizing agent that is widely used in cancer chemotherapy. This structurally complex natural product acts by binding to beta-tubulin in assembled microtubules. The 2'-hydroxyl group in the flexible side chain of PTX is an absolute requirement for activity, but its precise role in the drug-receptor interaction has not been specifically investigated. The contribution of the 2'-OH group to the affinity and tubulin-assembly efficacy of PTX has been evaluated through quantitative analysis of PTX derivatives possessing side chain deletions: 2'-deoxy-PTX, N-debenzoyl-2'-deoxy-PTX, and baccatin III. The affinity of 2'-deoxy-PTX for stabilized microtubules was more than 100-fold lower than that of PTX and only ~3-fold greater than the microtubule affinity of baccatin III. No microtubule binding activity was detected for the analogue N-debenzoyl-2'-deoxy-PTX. The tubulin-assembly efficacy of each ligand was consistent with the microtubule binding affinity, as was the trend in cytotoxicities. Molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the 2'-OH group of PTX can form a persistent hydrogen bond with D26 within the microtubule binding site. The absence of this interaction between 2'-deoxy-PTX and the receptor can account for the difference in binding free energy. Computational analyses also provide a possible explanation for why N-debenzoyl-2'-deoxy-PTX is inactive, in spite of the fact that it is essentially a substituted baccatin III. We propose that the hydrogen bonding interaction between the 2'-OH group and D26 is the most important stabilizing interaction that PTX forms with tubulin in the region of the C-13 side chain. We further hypothesize that the substituents at the 3'-position function to orient the 2'-OH group for a productive hydrogen bonding interaction with the protein.
Urinary catheters can be associated with complications such as urinary tract infection, pain and discomfort. This article reports on an audit of 51 patients who had a urinary catheter inserted during their hospital stay. Urinary incontinence meant catheterization in 37.5% (n = 27) of cases, with 64.7% (n = 33) being catheterized by nurses. The study highlighted the need for accurate documentation and care planning; 15 patients did not have a plan of care for their catheter and only eight patients had a plan for the removal of the catheter. Catheterization is the most common cause of hospital-acquired infection, and therefore the use of catheters needs careful examination to reduce this type of infection. The question is raised whether catheterization is used as a convenience for nursing staff or as an essential aspect of care.
A set of differential equations is derived which describes the four unidirectional fluxes of a substance across the boundaries of the central compartment of a serially arranged three compartment system, and the amount of this substance present in the central compartment. An analytic solution is obtained which yields all of these quantities as functions of time. The analysis is associated with a defined set of repetitive experiments from which the necessary data are obtained and during which the two outer compartments must be subject to experimental control. The solution is applicable to both the initial steady state and a transient, time-dependent state created by making a step change in the initial conditions. It describes the fluxes and compartment size without assuming that constant kinetic coefficients relate the fluxes to compartmental quantities but is limited by the requirement that the response of the system be repeatable in time.
Phosphoinositide 3'-kinase (PI3K) is a key node in the B-cell receptor pathway, which plays a crucial role in the trafficking, survival, and proliferation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. This article reviews the biology of PI3K, focusing on its relationship to the CLL microenvironment, and discusses the biological rationale for PI3K inhibition in CLL. Preliminary safety and efficacy data from early phase clinical trials is also discussed. Potential biomarkers for clinical response to PI3K inhibitors such as ZAP-70, IGHV status, and CCL3 are examined. Where PI3K inhibition may fit in the evolving landscape of CLL therapy is also explored.
Attenuated nutrient signaling extends the life span in yeast and higher eukaryotes; however, the mechanisms are not completely understood. Here we identify the Ssy1-Ptr3-Ssy5 (SPS) amino acid sensing pathway as a novel longevity factor. A null mutation of SSY5 (ssy5Delta) increases replicative life span (RLS) by approximately 50%. Our results demonstrate that several NAD(+) homeostasis factors play key roles in this life span extension. First, expression of the putative malate-pyruvate NADH shuttle increases in ssy5Delta cells, and deleting components of this shuttle, MAE1 and OAC1, largely abolishes RLS extension. Next, we show that Stp1, a transcription factor of the SPS pathway, directly binds to the promoter of MAE1 and OAC1 to regulate their expression. Additionally, deletion of SSY5 increases nicotinamide riboside (NR) levels and phosphate-responsive (PHO) signaling activity, suggesting that ssy5Delta increases NR salvaging. This increase contributes to NAD(+) homeostasis, partially ameliorating the NAD(+) deficiency and rescuing the short life span of the npt1Delta mutant. Moreover, we observed that vacuolar phosphatase, Pho8, is partially required for ssy5Delta-mediated NR increase and RLS extension. Together, our studies present evidence that supports SPS signaling is a novel NAD(+) homeostasis factor and ssy5Delta-mediated life span extension is likely due to concomitantly increased mitochondrial and vacuolar function. Our findings may contribute to understanding the molecular basis of NAD(+) metabolism, cellular life span, and diseases associated with NAD(+) deficiency and aging.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a hepatotrophic and lymphotrophic virus and is a global health problem. Cirrhosis and hepatocellular cancer are the most common complications of HCV. Association between HCV and B cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (B-NHL) has been shown in epidemiological studies in the last 20 years. High prevalence of HCV infection among patients with NHL has been reported in the early 1990s by Ferri in Italy and this association has been confirmed in later studies. Geographically, HCV related NHL is highly variable and chronic rather than cleared HCV infection is required for lymphomagenesis. Although anti-HCV antibody test is the most commonly used technique in epidemiological studies, HCV-RNA is more useful test to detect the association between HCV and NHL. The optimal management of HCV related NHL is not clear. However, anti-viral treatment may be sufficient for cases with low grade and/or asymptomatic lymphomas, while immuno-chemotherapy is necessary, in spite of probable hepatic toxicity, in cases with high grade lymphomas.
AIMS: To determine whether the Joint European Societies' recommendations that first degree blood relatives of patients with premature coronary heart disease (CHD) should be screened for coronary risk factors is being followed and, if so, how effectively these relatives are being managed. METHODS AND RESULTS: Using a postal questionnaire, 3322 relatives (siblings and children >/=18 years of age) of 1289 index patients in the EUROASPIRE II survey who had suffered from premature CHD (men under 55 years and women under 65 years) were asked whether screening for coronary risk factors had occurred and, if so, how they were being managed in terms of lifestyle advice and drug therapies. Overall, screening for coronary risk factors because of CHD in the family was only performed in 11.1% of siblings and 5.6% of children. However, prevalences of different cardiac risk factors were high both in relatives and offspring and a clear familial clustering could be documented. Less than 50% of siblings and 25% of children were given some general lifestyle advice regarding cardiac risk factors. Moreover, active interventions such as starting antihypertensive or lipid lowering drugs were rarely carried out, particularly in children of patients with premature CHD. CONCLUSIONS: European physicians rarely screen family members of patients with premature CHD for cardiac risk factors. General lifestyle style advice or active treatment for these risk factors are also rarely given. However, since these family members have a high prevalence and familial clustering of cardiac risk factors, they form an ideal target population for primary prevention of CHD in high-risk patients.
Bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can differentiate into a variety of cell types including smooth muscle cells (SMCs). We have attempted to demonstrate that, following treatment with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta1) and ascorbic acid (AA), human bone-marrow-derived MSCs differentiate into the SMC lineage for use in tissue engineering. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction for SMC-specific gene (alpha smooth muscle actin, h1-calponin, and SM22alpha) expression was performed on MSCs, which were cultured with various concentrations of TGF-beta1 or AA. TGF-beta1 had a tendency to up-regulate the expression of SMC-specific genes in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of SM22alpha was significantly up-regulated by 30 microM AA. We also investigated the additive effect of TGF-beta1 and AA for differentiation into SMCs and compared this effect with that of other factors including platelet-derived growth factor BB (PDGF-BB). In addition to SMC-specific gene expression, SMC-specific proteins increased by two to four times when TGF-beta1 and AA were used together compared with their administration alone. PDGF did not increase the expression of SMC-specific markers. MSCs cultured with TGF-beta1 and AA did not differentiate into osteoblasts and adipocytes. These results suggest that a combination of TGF-beta1 and AA is useful for the differentiation of MSCs into SMCs for use in tissue engineering.
During the angiosperm (flowering-plant) life cycle, double fertilization represents the hallmark between diploid and haploid generations [1]. The success of double fertilization largely depends on compatible communication between the male gametophyte (pollen tube) and the maternal tissues of the flower, culminating in precise pollen tube guidance to the female gametophyte (embryo sac) and its rupture to release sperm cells. Several important factors involved in the pollen tube reception have been identified recently [2-6], but the underlying signaling pathways are far from being understood. Here, we report that a group of female-specific small proteins, early nodulin-like proteins (ENODLs, or ENs), are required for pollen tube reception. ENs are featured with a plastocyanin-like (PCNL) domain, an arabinogalactan (AG) glycomodule, and a predicted glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor motif. We show that ENs are asymmetrically distributed at the plasma membrane of the synergid cells and accumulate at the filiform apparatus, where arriving pollen tubes communicate with the embryo sac. EN14 strongly and specifically interacts with the extracellular domain of the receptor-like kinase FERONIA, localized at the synergid cell surface and known to critically control pollen tube reception [6]. Wild-type pollen tubes failed to arrest growth and to rupture after entering the ovules of quintuple loss-of-function EN mutants, indicating a central role of ENs in male-female communication and pollen tube reception. Moreover, overexpression of EN15 by the endogenous promoter caused disturbed pollen tube guidance and reduced fertility. These data suggest that female-derived GPI-anchored ENODLs play an essential role in male-female communication and fertilization.
Dosed adaptation to environmental factors is an efficient non-drug means for increasing the resistance of organs or the body as a whole. We demonstrated earlier that nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in adaptive defense of the organism, in particular due to activation of heat shock protein (HSP) synthesis. A key question remained open--to what extent the formation of adaptive defense depends on central mechanisms and to what extent on the intracellular mechanisms immediately responding to the adapting factor, and whether the NO-dependent activation of HSP synthesis plays a role in adaptation of isolated cells. In the present study we looked into the possibility of producing a protective effect of adaptation to heat in cell culture. A 6-day adaptation to heat limited to 17% the decrease in metabolic activity induced by heat shock in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts. The development of adaptation was associated with increased NO production. Treatment of cells with the inhibitor of NO synthase L-NNA (100 micro M) prevented the development of adaptive protection. Adaptation of cell culture enhanced synthesis of HSP70 but not HSP27. Blockade of HSP70 synthesis with quercetin (50 micro M) left unchanged the protective effect of adaptation. Inhibition of NO synthesis restricted the adaptation-induced HSP70 synthesis. Therefore, the formation of adaptation at the cell level may result from a direct action of an environmental factor without participation of neuro-humoral factors. Such adaptation involves NO-dependent mechanisms divorced from the activation of HSP70 synthesis.
During locomotion and exercise, bone is subjected to forces induced by gravitational loading and muscle loading. The inherent link between these modes of loading has confounded emergence of either one as the principal anabolic or anticatabolic signal in bone. A paradigm has emerged in the literature stipulating that muscle loading is the larger of the two, and therefore, bone morphology is predominantly determined by muscle loads. In spite of the intuitive appeal of a muscle-bone unit tuned to the magnitude of contractile forces, little evidence exists for the relatively few, large-magnitude muscle contractions arising during daily activities to dominate the mechanosensory input of bone. Moreover, a review of the literature raises several inconsistencies in this paradigm and indicates that the alternative--gravitational loading--can have a significant role in determining bone mass and morphology. Certainly, the relative contribution of each type of loading will depend on the specific activity, the location of the bone within the skeleton, and whether the bone is weight-bearing or not. Most likely, a more comprehensive paradigm for explaining sensitivity of bone to loading will have to include not only large-magnitude gravitational and muscle loads, but also other factors such as high-frequency, low-magnitude signals generated by the muscles during postural adjustments.
We performed radiofrequency catheter ablation in five patients associated with Ebstein's anomaly to cure their refractory tachyarrhythmias. The presenting arrhythmias were four cases of orthodromic circus movement tachycardia using accessory pathways as a requisite limb, including one case of a Mahaim fiber and one of atrial flutter of common variety. All accessory pathways, including the Mahaim fiber, were ablated by RF energy delivered through the catheter placed at the AV annulus rather than the displaced anatomical AV groove. Interestingly, the antegrade or retrograde conduction interval over these accessory pathways was relatively longer than that of usual accessory pathways, and the accessory pathway potential was fractionated in some cases. The location of the atrioventricular node was displaced from the usual position to the postero-inferior area of Koch's triangle in one case. The configuration of the flutter wave was larger than usual in height as well as in width. All tachyarrhythmias were cured by RF catheter ablation. In the case of RF catheter ablation for patients with Ebstein's anomaly, close attention is indispensable in order to accomplish it safely and successfully, because of the anatomical and functional differences peculiar to Ebstein's anomaly.
BACKGROUND: The Netherlands is a very low endemic country for hepatitis A virus infections (HAV, notification rate of <1/100,000). Historically in Amsterdam, a large proportion of infections are imported from Turkey and Morocco in children returning from summer holiday. Annually since 1998, the public health service of Amsterdam has targeted these children for HAV vaccination before the summer. As the population of non-western immigrants and their descendents increases, we describe recent trends in HAV in ethnic groups in Amsterdam (1996-2011), identifying current risk groups and recommending targeted prevention through vaccination. METHODS: We studied all cases of (non-homosexually acquired) HAV infection notified in the Amsterdam region (1996-2011, n=819) by ethnic group and generation (first/second generation migrants: FGM and SGM respectively). Incidence rates were estimated as the average number of cases per 100,000/year. Using Poisson regression, we calculated incidence rate ratios (IRR) by ethnic group and generation adjusted for age and calendar year, and modeled seasonal variation using a smoothed time series. RESULTS: Incidence of HAV in Amsterdam dropped from 24.8/100,000 population in 1996 (178 cases) to 1.0/100,000 in 2011 (8 cases). Since 2005, 56% of cases are imported, the majority (62%) in second generation migrant (SGM) children of Moroccan, or other non-western ethnic backgrounds. The adjusted IRR in SGM relative to the ethnic Dutch population was 3.7 (95% CI: 2.3-6.1) in Moroccan SGM, 4.3 (95%CI: 2.6-7.2) in SGM of other non-western backgrounds and 1.9 (95%CI: 0.8-4.1) in Turkish SGM. CONCLUSION: Though incidence of HAV in Amsterdam has declined substantially since 1996, it is still higher in SGM children of Moroccan & other non-western ethnic backgrounds. In line with WHO recommendations of June 2012, introduction of single-dose HAV vaccination, targeted at SGM children from HAV endemic countries, could be considered within the routine childhood vaccination schedule.
BACKGROUND: Capecitabine has proven effective as a chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. Though several Phase II/III studies of capecitabine as neoadjuvant chemotherapy have been conducted, the results still remain inconsistent. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to obtain more precise understanding of the role of capecitabine in neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer patients. METHODS: The electronic database PubMed and online abstracts from ASCO and SABCS were searched to identify randomized clinical trials comparing neoadjuvant chemotherapy with or without capecitabine in early/operable breast cancer patients without distant metastasis. Risk ratios were used to estimate the association between capecitabine in neoadjuvant chemotherapy and various efficacy outcomes. Fixed- or random-effect models were adopted to pool data in RevMan 5.1. RESULTS: Five studies were included in the meta-analysis. Neoadjuvant use of capecitabine with anthracycline and/or taxane based therapy was not associated with significant improvement in clinical outcomes including: pathologic complete response in breast (pCR; RR = 1.10, 95% CI 0.87-1.40, p = 0.43), pCR in breast tumor and nodes (tnpCR RR = 0.99, 95% CI 0.83-1.18, p = 0.90), overall response rate (ORR; RR = 1.00, 95% CI 0.94-1.07, p = 0.93), or breast-conserving surgery (BCS; RR = 0.98, 95% CI 0.93-1.04, p = 0.49). CONCLUSIONS: Neoadjuvant treatment of breast cancer involving capecitabine did not significantly improve pCR, tnpCR, BCS or ORR. Thus adding capecitabine to neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimes is unlikely to improve outcomes in breast cancer patients without distant metastasis. Further research is required to establish the condition that capecitabine may be useful in breast cancer neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
The cell wall protects fungi against lysis and determines their cell shape. Alpha-glucan is a major carbohydrate component of the fungal cell wall, but its function is unknown and its synthase has remained elusive. Here, we describe a fission yeast gene, ags1(+), which encodes a putative alpha-glucan synthase. In contrast to the structure of other carbohydrate polymer synthases, the predicted Ags1 protein consists of two probable catalytic domains for alpha-glucan assembly, namely an intracellular domain for alpha-glucan synthesis and an extracellular domain speculated to cross-link or remodel alpha-glucan. In addition, the predicted Ags1 protein contains a multipass transmembrane domain that might contribute to transport of alpha-glucan across the membrane. Loss of Ags1p function in a temperature-sensitive mutant results in cell lysis, whereas mutant cells grown at the semipermissive temperature contain decreased levels of cell wall alpha-glucan and fail to maintain rod shapes, causing rounding of the cells. These findings demonstrate that alpha-glucan is essential for fission yeast morphogenesis.
OBJECTIVES: Blood tests are requested for approximately 50% of patients attending the emergency department (ED). The time taken to obtain the results is perceived as a common reason for delay. The objective of this study was therefore to investigate the turnaround time (TAT) for blood results and whether this affects patient length of stay (LOS) and to identify potential areas for improvement. METHODS: A time-in-motion study was performed at the ED of the John Radcliffe Hospital (JRH), Oxford, UK. The duration of each of the stages leading up to receipt of 101 biochemistry and haematology results was recorded, along with the corresponding patient's LOS. RESULTS: The findings reveal that the mean time for haematology results to become available was 1 hour 6 minutes (95% CI: 29 minutes to 2 hours 13 minutes), while biochemistry samples took 1 hour 42 minutes (95% CI: 1 hour 1 minute to 4 hours 21 minutes), with some positive correlation noted with the patient LOS, but no significant variation between different days or shifts. CONCLUSIONS: With the fastest 10% of samples being reported within 35 minutes (haematology) and 1 hour 5 minutes (biochemistry) of request, our study showed that delays can be attributable to laboratory TAT. Given the limited ability to further improve laboratory processes, the solutions to improving TAT need to come from a collaborative and integrated approach that includes strategies before samples reach the laboratory and downstream review of results.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the expression levels of thymidylate synthase (TS) and 2-[(1)(8)F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ((1)(8)F-FDG) uptake on positron emission tomography (PET) in various thoracic neoplasms. In total, 392 patients [non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (n=140), malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) (n=21), pulmonary metastatic tumors (PMT) (n=148), thymic epithelial tumors (n=49) and pulmonary neuroendocrine (NE) tumor (n=34)] who underwent (1)(8)F-FDG PET before treatment were included in this study. Tumor sections were stained using immunohistochemistry for determination of TS, orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), microvessel density (MVD), CD34 and p53. The expression of TS in thoracic neoplasms had a positivity of 58% (230/392), and the positive rates of TS expression in NSCLC, PMT, thymic epithelial tumor, NE tumor and MPM samples were 56, 57, 57, 85 and 47%, respectively. The positivity of TS expression was significantly higher in NE tumors compared to that in other thoracic tumors. A statistically significant correlation between TS expression and (1)(8)F-FDG uptake was observed in thoracic neoplasms, in particular primary lung adenocarcinomas, high-grade NE tumors, thymomas and MPMs. Moreover, TS expression was closely associated with angiogenesis, DPD, OPRT and p53. Our results indicated that SUV(max) by (1)(8)F-FDG uptake may be an alternative biomarker for predicting TS expression in patients with primary lung adenocarcinoma, high-grade NE tumor, thymoma and MPM.
The recently discovered Canis familiaris papillomavirus (PV) type 2 (CfPV2) provides a unique opportunity to study PV gene functions in vitro and in vivo. Unlike the previously characterized canine oral PV, CfPV2 contains an E5 open reading frame and is associated with progression to squamous cell carcinoma. In the current study, we have expressed and characterized the CfPV2-encoded E5 protein, a small, hydrophobic, 41-amino-acid polypeptide. We demonstrate that, similar to the E5 protein from high-risk human PV type 16, the CfPV2 E5 protein is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and that its expression decreases keratinocyte proliferation and cell life span. E5 expression also increases the percentage of cells in the G(1) phase of the cell cycle, with a concomitant decrease in the percentage of cells in S phase. To identify a potential mechanism for E5-mediated growth inhibition from the ER, we developed a real-time PCR method to quantify the splicing of XBP1 mRNA as a measure of ER stress. We found that the CfPV2 E5 protein induced ER stress and that this, as well as the observed growth inhibition, is tempered significantly by coexpression of the CfPV2 E6 and E7 genes. It is possible that the spatial/temporal regulation of E6/E7 gene expression during keratinocyte differentiation might therefore modulate E5 activity and ER stress.
Pemetrexed, a folate metabolic antagonist, is considered to be effective against plural mesotheliomas, non-small cell lung cancer, and especially for non-squamous cell cancer. However, it has been reported to have adverse interactions with nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs(NSAIDs). In the present study, we compared the incidence of adverse events between patients receiving pemetrexed therapy with and without concomitant NSAID administration. No significant difference in the incidence of hematotoxic events of Grade 3 or worse was observed. As for the incidence of non-hematotoxic events, the increase in the amount of creatinine, namely a severe adverse effect of Grade 2 or more, was significantly higher in the combined therapy group (p=0.018). No other significant differences were noted for other adverse events. A creatinine increase to Grade 2 or greater developed significantly earlier in the combined group(median value, 12.7 courses; p=0.0063). Our results suggest that renal dysfunction may easily develop as a result of continued pemetrexed administration combined with NSAID therapy. Therefore, it is necessary to take precautions against adverse side effects such as renal dysfunction when combining pemetrexed with NSAID therapy, by conducting periodic examinations.
The response of a cell to integrated stresses was investigated using environmental and/or genetic perturbations that disrupted labile iron homeostasis and increased oxidative stress. The effects of the perturbations were monitored as nutritional requirements, and were traced to specific enzymic targets. A yggX gshA cyaY mutant strain required exogenous thiamine and methionine for growth. The thiamine requirement, which had previously been linked to the Fe-S cluster proteins ThiH and ThiC, was responsive to oxidative stress and was not directly affected by manipulation of the iron pool. The methionine requirement was associated with the activity of sulfite reductase, an enzyme that appeared responsive to disruption of labile iron homeostasis. The results are incorporated in a model to suggest how the activity of iron-containing enzymes not directly sensitive to oxygen can be decreased by oxidation of the labile iron pool.
In the present research a salt of vincamine, a poorly bioavailable indole alkaloid derived from the leaves of Vinca minor L., was synthesized in the solid state by means of a mechanochemical process employing citric acid as a reagent. The mechanochemical process was adopted as a solvent-free alternative to classical citrate synthetic route that involves the use of solvents. Since the mechanochemical salification is little studied to date and presents the disadvantage of offering a low yield, in this work, the influence of three process and formulation variables on the percentage of vincamine citrate was studied. In particular, the time of mechanical treatment (in planetary mill Fritsch P5) and the amount of citric acid were varied in order to evaluate their effect on the yield of the process, and the introduction of a solid solvent, a common pharmaceutical excipient (sodium carboxymethylcellulose, NaCMC), was considered. Due to the complexity of the resulting samples' matrix, an appropriate experimental design was employed to project the experimental trials and the influence of the three variables on the experimental response was estimated with the help of a statistical analysis. The experimental response, that is, the yield of the process corresponding to the percentage of vincamine in the protonated form, was unconventionally calculated by means of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analysis (XPS). Out of 16 samples, the one with the highest yield was the coground sample containing vincamine and citric acid in a 1:2 molar ratio, treated for 60 min in the presence of NaCMC. Under the above conditions the salification reaction was completed highlighting the importance of a proper selection of process and formulation variables of the mechanochemical salification, and emphasizing the crucial role of the solid solvent in facilitating the salification. The second step of the research encompassed the characterization of the citrate salt obtained by solid excipient assisted mechanochemical salification (SEAMS) in comparison with the vincamine citrate obtained by classical synthetic route. The samples were characterized by, besides XPS, high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD), in vitro solubilization kinetics and in vivo oral pilot study in rats. Finally, in order to monitor over time possible disproportionation phenomena, stability studies have been performed by repeating XPS analysis after 8 months. As expected, the the SEAMS-vincamine salt consisted of particles both crystalline and amorphous. The solubilization kinetics was superior to the corresponding salt probably thanks to the favorable presence of the hydrophilic excipient although the two salts were bioequivalent in rats after oral administration. Furthermore, no evidence of disporportionation phenomena in the SEAMS-vincamine salt was found after storage. In conclusion, in the case of forming salts of poorly soluble drugs, the SEAMS process may be an interesting alternative to both classical synthetic routes, eliminating the need for solvent removal, and simple neat mechanochemical salification, overcoming the problem of limited process yield.
Despite the importance of fertility in humans and livestock, there has been little success dissecting the genetic basis of fertility. Our hypothesis was that genes differentially expressed in the endometrium and corpus luteum on Day 13 of the estrous cycle between cows with either good or poor genetic merit for fertility would be enriched for genetic variants associated with fertility. We combined a unique genetic model of fertility (cattle that have been selected for high and low fertility and show substantial difference in fertility) with gene expression data from these cattle and genome-wide association study (GWAS) results in approximately 20,000 cattle to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) regions and sequence variants associated with genetic variation in fertility. Two hundred and forty-five QTL regions and 17 sequence variants associated primarily with prostaglandin F2alpha, steroidogenesis, mRNA processing, energy status, and immune-related processes were identified. Ninety-three of the QTL regions were validated by two independent GWAS, with signals for fertility detected primarily on chromosomes 18, 5, 7, 8, and 29. Plausible causative mutations were identified, including one missense variant significantly associated with fertility and predicted to affect the protein function of EIF4EBP3. The results of this study enhance our understanding of 1) the contribution of the endometrium and corpus luteum transcriptome to phenotypic fertility differences and 2) the genetic architecture of fertility in dairy cattle. Including these variants in predictions of genomic breeding values may improve the rate of genetic gain for this critical trait.
Membrane trafficking and remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton are critical activities contributing to cellular events that include cell growth, migration and tumor invasion. ADP-ribosylation factor (Arf)-directed GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) have crucial roles in these processes. The Arf GAPs function in part by regulating hydrolysis of GTP bound to Arf proteins. The Arf GAPs, which have multiple functional domains, also affect the actin cytoskeleton and membranes by specific interactions with lipids and proteins. A description of these interactions provides insights into the molecular mechanisms by which Arf GAPs regulate physiological and pathological cellular events. Here we describe the Arf GAP family and summarize the currently identified protein interactors in the context of known Arf GAP functions.
This study was undertaken to examine the effects of repeated administration of the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen on food intake in male Wistar rats. In the 1st Experiment, the effects of daily administration of physiological saline and baclofen (2 mg/kg, i.p.) for 27 days were investigated on food intake and body weight in non-deprived rats (n=6 in each group). Baclofen significantly (P<0.05) increased cumulative food intake each day over the treatment period during the 60 min measurement period following administration. Tolerance did not develop to the short-term hyperphagic effect of baclofen over the course of the experiment. In addition, treatment with baclofen did not alter body weight of the animals over the 27 day treatment period when compared with the saline control rats. In the 2nd Experiment, the effects of acute and chronic administration of baclofen (2 mg/kg) were investigated on 24 h food intake in rats. The rats were injected daily for 21 days with either saline (n=6) or baclofen (n=6). Food intake was measured in 30 min time bins for 24 h on treatment Days 1, 12 and 21 following injection. The results showed that while baclofen produced short-term increases in food consumption following injection on treatment Days 1, 12 and 21, the daily (24 h) food intake of the animals was not significantly different from those of control rats. Thus, these data reveal that while chronic administration of baclofen (2 mg/kg) produces short-term increases in feeding without the development of tolerance, daily (24 h) food consumption is not affected. These findings are consistent with the observation that chronic administration of baclofen (2 mg/kg) had no effect on the body weight of these animals.
BACKGROUND: Arterial ischemic stroke (AIS) and sinovenous thrombosis (SVT) are relatively rare events in children. The contribution of prethrombotic disorders to the etiology of these entities has not been completely elucidated. OBJECTIVES: To determine the frequency of inherited and acquired prethrombotic disorders in a pediatric population with AIS and SVT and to report clinical and radiological features. METHODS: From May 1992 to April 1997, 30 consecutive children with AIS and 10 children with SVT were assisted at a single institution. Hemostatic evaluation was performed for all the children. Evaluation included the following assays: protein C, protein S, antithrombin, plasminogen, activated protein C resistance, factor V Leiden mutation, and the detection of antiphospholipid antibodies. Data concerning baseline demographics, risk factors, presenting features, family history of thrombosis, and radiological findings were also recorded. RESULTS: One or more prethrombotic disorders were present in 9 children (30%) with AIS (inherited protein S deficiency, 2 patients; inherited protein C deficiency, 1 patient; acquired antithrombin deficiency, 2 patients; antiphospholipid antibodies, 3 patients; and antiphospholipid antibodies and plaminogen deficiency, 1 patient) and in 5 children (50%) with SVT (inherited protein S deficiency, 1 patient; acquired antithrombin deficiency, 3 patients; and antiphospholipid antibodies, 1 patient). CONCLUSIONS: Most children studied presented both a variety of risk factors for thrombosis and concomitant prethrombotic disorders. Therefore, a complete hemostatic evaluation for all children with AIS and SVT should be performed, despite the presence of obvious clinical risk factors or lack of family history of thrombosis.
We tested the hypothesis that the sensitivity of forming dental enamel to fluoride (F-) is ameloblast developmental stage-dependent and that enamel mineralization disturbances at the surface of fluorotic enamel are caused by damage to late-secretory- and transitional-stage ameloblasts. Four-day-old hamsters received a single intraperitoneal dose of 2.5-20 mg NaF/kg body weight and were examined, 24 h later, by histology and histochemistry. A single dose of >or=5 mg of NaF/kg induced the formation of a hyper- followed by a hypomineralized band in the secretory enamel, without changing the ameloblast structure. At 10 mg of NaF/kg, cystic lesions became apparent under isolated populations of distorted late-secretory- and transitional-stage ameloblasts. Staining with von Kossa stain showed that the enamel under these lesions was hypermineralized. At 20 mg of NaF/kg, cystic lesions containing necrotic cells were also found in the early stages of secretory amelogenesis and were also accompanied with hypermineralization of the enamel surface. We concluded that the sensitivity to F- is ameloblast developmental stage-dependent. Groups of transitional ameloblasts are most sensitive, followed by those at early secretory stages. These data suggest that a F-induced increase in cell death in the transitional-stage ameloblasts accompanies the formation of cystic lesions, which may explain the formation of enamel pits seen clinically in erupted teeth.
Diseases affecting endodermal organs like the pancreas, lung and gastrointestinal (GI) tract have a substantial impact on human welfare. Since many of these are congenital defects that arise as a result of defects during development broad efforts are focused on understanding the development of these organs so as to better identify risk factors, disease mechanisms and therapeutic targets. Studies implementing model systems, like the amphibian Xenopus, have contributed immensely to our understanding of signaling (e.g. Wnt, FGF, BMP, RA) pathways and gene regulation (e.g. hhex, ptf1a, ngn3) that underlie normal development as well as disease progression. Recent advances in genome engineering further enhance the capabilities of the Xenopus model system for pursuing biomedical research, and will undoubtedly result in a boom of new information underlying disease mechanisms ultimately leading to advancements in diagnosis and therapy.
Inasmuch as caput epididymal and even testicular spermatozoa are now being used to generate pregnancies by direct injection into the oocyte, differences in the chromatin of spermatozoa from proximal and distal locations in the epididymis were studied. Acridine Orange staining was used to investigate chromatin structure in human spermatozoa which had left the testis and were undergoing maturation in the epididymis. Measurement of green and red fluorescence intensities of human spermatozoa by flow cytometry demonstrated a decrease in binding of Acridine Orange to DNA as the spermatozoa traversed the epididymis. Using spermatozoa from the cauda epididymis as the standard, the percentages of spermatozoa from the efferent duct, proximal corpus epididymis, midcorpus epididymis, distal corpus epididymis, proximal cauda epididymis and distal cauda epididymis that had matured with regard to chromatin condensation were 28 +/- 5, 39 +/- 3, 49 +/- 5, 64 +/- 5, 69 +/- 6 and 74 +/- 4% respectively. It may be concluded that eggs fertilized by ejaculated spermatozoa receive a more highly condensed form of chromatin than that received by eggs inseminated with proximal epididymal or testicular spermatozoa.
The cytotoxic lymphocyte protease granzyme B (GzmB) can promote apoptosis through direct processing and activation of members of the caspase family. GzmB can also cleave the BH3-only protein, BID, to promote caspase-independent mitochondrial permeabilization. Although human and mouse forms of GzmB exhibit extensive homology, these proteases diverge at residues predicted to influence substrate binding. We show that human and mouse GzmB exhibit radical differences in their ability to cleave BID, as well as several other key substrates, such as ICAD and caspase-8. Moreover, pharmacological inhibition of caspases clonogenically rescued human and mouse target cells from apoptosis initiated by mouse GzmB, but failed to do so in response to human GzmB. These data demonstrate that human and murine GzmB are distinct enzymes with different substrate preferences. Our observations also illustrate how subtle differences in enzyme structure can radically affect substrate selection.
Environmental surfaces near infected and/or colonised patients in hospitals are commonly contaminated with potentially pathogenic micro-organisms. At present, however, there is no standardised method for taking samples from surfaces in order to perform quantitative cultures. Usually contact plates or swabs are used, but these methods may give different results. The recovery rate of traditional swabbing, e.g. cotton or rayon, is poor. With a new type of swab utilising flocked nylon, the recovery may be enhanced up to three times compared with a rayon swab. In this study, we inoculated reference strains of Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus hirae onto a bedside table and took samples 1h later when inocula were dry. Sequential samples were taken from the same surface. A new sampling technique using two sequential nylon swabs for each sample was validated. The efficiency of the sampling, percentage recovery of the inoculum and the variation of culture results obtained from repeated experiments are described. Enhanced efficiency and higher recovery of inoculum were demonstrated using two sequential flocked nylon swabs for sampling.
BACKGROUND: Endophthalmitis is an ocular emergency and bacteria are the commonest aetiological agents of infectious endophthalmitis. Any delay in treatment will result in serious complications like complete loss of vision. Therefore, obtaining the most appropriate sample is of paramount importance for a microbiologist to identify the aetiological agents that help the ophthalmologist in planning treatment. OBJECTIVE: [corrected] This study was undertaken to determine the intraocular specimen that is most likely to yield a positive culture on microbiological examination. METHODS: From 60 cases, intraocular samples were collected in the operation theatre under anaesthesia. The samples obtained were aqueous humour and vitreous humour by vitreous tap, vitreous biopsy or pars plana vitrectomy. The specimens were processed within half an hour, first by inoculating onto culture media and then direct smear examination by Gram's Stain RESULTS: Eighty samples were obtained from 60 cases of which the most were vitreous fluid (vitreous biopsy/tap + vitrectomy fluid), i.e., 75%. Culture was positive in 88% vitrectomy fluid as compared to 74% in vitreous tap/biopsy followed by 20% in aqueous fluid. CONCLUSION: Vitrectomy fluid appears to be the best sample for culture from clinically diagnosed endophthalmitis cases.
BACKGROUND: With the spread of AIDS, many HIV-infected women have been diagnosed with Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), especially in Africa. Since the discovery of a novel herpesvirus as the causative agent of KS (human herpesvirus 8 - HHV-8) several seroepidemiological studies have been conducted to identify groups at risk for KS. The risk for women in Brazil has not been studied. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched for HHV-8 antibodies in sera obtained from a bank made up of samples from 3 groups of individuals: Group I: 163 HIV-1-infected women attended at an ambulatory clinic in 1994; Group II: 108 children born to HIV-1-infected mothers from 1990 to 1992, their antibodies reflected maternal infection, and Group III: 630 HIV-1-seronegative, healthy women. In-house immunofluorescence and Western-Blot assays based on the BCBL-1 cell line were used to detect anti-latent and anti-lytic HHV-8 antibodies. RESULTS: Group I had an overall frequency of antibodies of 8.6%, with a 1.2% frequency of anti-latent antibodies and an 8.0% frequency of anti-lytic antibodies. Similar results were detected in Group II, i.e., no cases with anti-latent antibodies and a 7.4% frequency of anti-lytic antibodies. In contrast, prevalences of 1.1% anti-latent antibodies and 0.3% anti-lytic antibodies were observed in Group III. CONCLUSIONS: The epidemiologic pattern of HHV-8 in women from Sao Paulo varies according to behavioral factors, with emphasis on the sexual and blood routes of virus transmission/acquisition. Although HHV-8 anti-lytic antibodies were found in HIV-1-infected women, no case of KS was detected. Protective factors against KS are probably related to gender and/or to antiretroviral therapies introduced in Brazil since 1994.
Studies of limited proteolysis on purified ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase with various proteases were performed in the presence and absence of the flavoprotein ligands. Both the diaphorase and the ferredoxin-dependent activities of the enzyme were followed as well as the proteolytic pattern in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, with further characterization of the polypeptides produced. These experiments revealed that only two regions of the flavoprotein are susceptible to the attack of the proteases used: (a) the N-terminal chain which can be cleaved only up to Lys35 and (b) the sequence segment 235-250. It can be inferred that these regions are on the surface of the protein molecule and presumably have a very flexible conformation adaptable to the protease active site. The deletion of the N-terminal region up to Thr36 of the native reductase (Mr 35,000) produced a truncated form (Mr about 31,000) which had full diaphorase activity but lost the capacity to catalyze the ferredoxin-dependent reaction. Proteolytic cleavage at the 235-250 segment of the sequence yielded a nicked protein (Mr about 30,000 by gel filtration; 23,000 plus 7,000 in denaturing electrophoresis) devoid of both activities. Protection by the flavoprotein ligands implies that the 23-35 region of the sequence is part of the binding site for ferredoxin and the 235-250 polypeptide segment is in the NADP(+)-binding site.
Endothelial cells that make up brain capillaries and constitute the blood-brain barrier become different from peripheral endothelial cells in response to inductive factors found in the nervous system. We have established a cell culture model of the blood-brain barrier by treating brain endothelial cells with a combination of astrocyte-conditioned medium and agents that elevate intracellular cAMP. These cells form high resistance tight junctions and exhibit low rates of paracellular leakage and fluid-phase endocytosis. They also undergo a dramatic structural reorganization as they form tight junctions. Results from these studies suggest modes of manipulating the permeability of the blood-brain barrier, potentially providing the basis for increasing the penetration of drugs into the central nervous system.
Previous studies have shown that matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-imaging mass spectrometry (MALDI-IMS) is useful for studying the distribution of various small metabolites, particularly lipids. However, in this technique, selective ionization of the target molecules is imperative, particularly when analyzing small molecules. Since the sample clean-up procedures available for the MALDI-IMS of small metabolites are limited, the tissue sample will contain numerous molecular species other than the target molecules. These molecules will compete for ionization resulting in severe ion suppression. Hence, it is necessary to develop and optimize a sample preparation protocol for the target molecules. In this study, through model experiments using reference compounds, we optimized the composition of the matrix solution used for positively charged lipids in terms of the concentration of the organic solvent and presence/absence of alkali metal salts. We demonstrated that a high concentration of organic solvent in the matrix solution favors the preferential detection of lipids over peptides. The presence of alkali metal salts in the matrix solution was favorable for the detection of polar lipids, while a salt-free matrix solution was suitable for the detection of nonpolar lipids. Furthermore, potassium salts added to the matrix solution caused merging of various lipid adducts (adducts with proton, sodium, and potassium) into one single potassiated species. Using the optimized protocols, we selectively analyzed phosphatidylcholine (PC) and triacylglycerol (TG) with different fatty acid compositions in a rat kidney section.
The nucleotide analog NS5B polymerase inhibitor sofosbuvir was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in December 2013 for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in combination with ribavirin or peginterferon and ribavirin. Sofosbuvir was developed to meet an urgent medical need for shorter, safer, simplified, more effective HCV treatment regimens and to reduce or eliminate the need for peginterferon. New treatment regimens were especially required for patient populations with limited treatment options, including patients who had failed prior HCV therapy, those with compensated and decompensated cirrhosis, and those who were either intolerant of or had contraindications to interferon. Sofosbuvir plus ribavirin for patients with genotype 2 or 3 HCV infection was the first approved all-oral treatment option. Sofosbuvir is also the backbone of the first regimen available for patients awaiting liver transplantation to prevent HCV recurrence, as well as the first oral interferon-free regimen for patients coinfected with HCV and HIV. This paper describes the development of sofosbuvir up to its original FDA approval.
INTRODUCTION: The red cell distribution width (RDW) is a biomarker strongly associated with poor outcome in inflammatory and thrombotic diseases. Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is both an inflammatory and thrombotic state in which many biomarkers have been studied. In this exploratory pilot study, we sought to determine whether RDW predicts poor outcome in patients with SAH. METHODS: Patients with moderate-to-severe SAH were prospectively enrolled in an observational study of biomarkers and outcome. CBC, ESR, high sensitivity CRP, D-dimer, and fibrinogen were obtained on post-bleed days (PBD) 1, 3, 5, 7, and 10. Poor outcome was defined as a modified Rankin score of 3-6 at 90-days. RESULTS: Of 40 patients, 5 (12.5%) died and 19 (47.5%) had a poor outcome. RDW (p = 0.046) when measured serially over the study period, was significantly higher among patients with poor outcome. Maximum RDW (OR 2.3 95% CI 1.2-3.6; p = 0.014) and maximum WBC count (OR 1.29 95% CI 1.04-1.60; p = 0.018) were associated with poor outcome. Stepwise addition of maximum ESR, CRP, D-dimer, and fibrinogen yielded a model with RDW (OR 2.54 95% CI 1.21-5.35; p = 0.014) and fibrinogen (OR 1.01 95% CI 1.002-1.01; p = 0.004) predicting outcome. With addition of age and Hunt and Hess grade, RDW, fibrinogen, and high-grade status remained significantly associated with poor outcome. Use of PBD1 RDW in lieu of maximum RDW, resulted in a similar model. CONCLUSIONS: An elevated RDW is associated with poor outcome in SAH patients. RDW may be a useful predictor of outcomes after SAH.
To better comprehend the thymic microenvironment, it is necessary to identify the antigenic profile of cortical thymic epithelial cells (cTECs) that are involved in the development of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-restricted T cells. Ultrastructurally, cTECs can be classified into four morphologically distinct subtypes: subcapsular/perivascular (EC1), pale (EC2), intermediate (EC3) and dark (EC4) cells. Several immunohistochemical studies were done on cTECs at the light and electron microscopic levels, but not with reference to the above subtypes. In the present paper, we analysed the expression of MHC class II antigen and cathepsin L by individual cTEC subtypes at the electron microscopic level. We show that (1) MHC class II antigens are expressed on the cell surfaces except on the basal surface of EC1, both on the cell surface and in intracytoplasmic vacuoles of EC2, and only in the intracytoplasmic vacuoles of EC3 and EC4, and (2) that cathepsin L is expressed strongly and uniformly throughout the cytoplasm of EC2, but weakly and non-uniformly in the cytoplasm of EC1, EC3 and EC4. These results show that MHC class II antigen expression and cathepsin L expression is heterogeneous in cTEC subtypes and suggest that EC2 might play a significant role in the development of CD4+ T cells.
The degradation rate and sorption characteristics of the triazolopyrimidine sulfonanilide herbicide florasulam and its principal degradation product 5-hydroxyflorasulam (5-OH-florasulam) were determined as a function of temperature and moisture in three different soils. The half-life for degradation of florasulam ranged from 1.0 to 8.5 days at 20-25 degrees C and from 6.4 to 85 days at 5 degrees C. The half-life for degradation of 5-OH-florasulam ranged from 8 to 36 days at 20-25 degrees C and from 43 to 78 days at 5 degrees C. The degradation rate of both compounds was strongly influenced by temperature, with activation energies ranging from 57 to 95 kJ/mol for florasulam and from 27 to 74 kJ/mol for 5-OH florasulam. Soil moisture content had negligible impact on the degradation rate. Apparent (nonequilibrium) sorption coefficients for florasulam and 5-OH-florasulam at 0 days after treatment (DAT) were 0.1-0.6 L/kg and increased linearly with time for both florasulam and 5-OH-florasulam (r(2) > 0.90) to levels as high as 12-23 L/kg. Heats of adsorption were calculated on one soil as a function of time. Heat of adsorption values for both florasulam and 5-OH-florasulam increased as incubation time increased and the amount of each compound decreased; values were near 0 kJ/mol initially and increased to a maximum of 91 and 66 kJ/mol for florasulam and 5-OH-florasulam, respectively.
A novel gene ZC3H12A, encoding MCP-1-induced protein 1 (MCPIP), was recently identified in human peripheral blood monocytes treated with monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) and in human monocyte-derived macrophages stimulated with interleukin (IL)-1beta. These experiments revealed that the gene undergoes rapid and potent transcription induction upon stimulation with proinflammatory molecules, such as MCP-1, IL-1beta, tumour necrosis factor alpha and lipopolysaccharide. Here we show that the induction of ZC3H12A by IL-1beta is predominantly NF-kappaB-dependent because inhibition of this signalling pathway results in the impairment of ZC3H12A transcription activation. Our results indicate the presence of an IL-1beta-responding region within the second intron of the ZC3H12A gene, which contains four functional NF-kappaB-binding sites. Therefore, we propose that this transcription enhancer transduces a ZC3H12A transcription-inducing signal after IL-1beta stimulation. Recent reports suggest that MCPIP acts as a negative regulator of inflammatory processes because it is engaged in the degradation of transcripts coding for certain proinflammatory cytokines. Our observations provide evidence for a novel negative feedback loop in the activation of NF-kappaB and point to potential significance of MCPIP in the treatment of various pathological states, such as diabetes or cancer that involve disturbances in the functioning of the NF-kappaB system.
INTRODUCTION: Late-onset hypogonadism, lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) due to benign prostatic enlargement (BPE), and prostate cancer commonly coexist in the aging male. Due to a better understanding of the physiology and impact of testosterone on benign and malignant diseases of the prostate, the view toward testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) in these individuals has changed dramatically over time. AIM: This communication evaluates the effects of testosterone on benign prostatic growth and prostate cancer and reviews the evidence for TRT for men with BPE and prostate cancer. METHODS: A literature review was performed with regards to TRT in men with prostate cancer as well as the effect of testosterone on the growth of benign prostate tissue and prostate cancer carcinogenesis. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: To evaluate the evidence for an effect of testosterone on the growth of benign prostate tissue and the development of prostate cancer and TRT in men with prostate cancer. RESULTS: TRT does not exacerbate LUTS. Current evidence is lacking but suggests that TRT may not increase the risk of subsequent diagnosis of prostate cancer, and is unlikely to impact recurrence or progression for men with treated prostate cancer, but longer follow-up is needed. CONCLUSIONS: There is no evidence to suggest that TRT is contraindicated in men with BPE or effectively treated prostate cancer. Tan RBW, Silberstein JL, and Hellstrom WJG. Testosterone and the prostate. Sex Med Rev 2014;2:112-120.
In searching for small-molecule compounds that inhibit proliferation and survival of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells and may, therefore, be exploited as potential therapeutic agents for this disease, we identified the commonly used and well-tolerated antibiotic doxycycline as a strong candidate. Here, we demonstrate that doxycycline inhibits the growth of DLBCL cells both in vitro and in mouse xenograft models. In addition, we show that doxycycline accumulates in DLBCL cells to high concentrations and affects multiple signaling pathways that are crucial for lymphomagenesis. Our data reveal the deneddylating activity of COP-9 signalosome (CSN) as a novel target of doxycycline and suggest that doxycycline may exert its effects in DLBCL cells in part through a CSN5-HSP90 pathway. Consistently, knockdown of CSN5 exhibited similar effects as doxycycline treatment on DLBCL cell survival and HSP90 chaperone function. In addition to DLBCL cells, doxycycline inhibited growth of several other types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma cells in vitro. Together, our results suggest that doxycycline may represent a promising therapeutic agent for DLBCL and other non-Hodgkin lymphomas subtypes.
A moderately halophilic, Gram-positive coccus, designated strain W24(T), was isolated from saline soil in Qinghai province, China. The isolate was able to grow at salinities of 0-24 % (w/v) NaCl (optimally at 8 %, w/v), at pH 5.5-9.0 (optimally at pH 7.5) and at 8-43 degrees C (optimally at 28 degrees C). The genomic DNA G+C content of strain W24(T) was 45.8 mol%. The predominant isoprenoid quinone was MK-6 and the cell wall contained lysine and glycine as diagnostic diamino acids. The polar lipids were diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol and an unidentified glycolipid. The major cellular fatty acids were iso-C(15 : 0), anteiso-C(15 : 0) and C(16 : 0). Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, strain W24(T) was found to be a member of the genus Salinicoccus and was related most closely to Salinicoccus hispanicus DSM 5352(T) (96.5 % sequence similarity). Based on data from the current polyphasic study, strain W24(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Salinicoccus, for which the name Salinicoccus halodurans sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is W24(T) (=CGMCC 1.6501(T)=DSM 19336(T)).
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected women carry a significant burden on human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and associated diseases. As HIV-infected individuals are living longer, the prevalence of HPV infection is rising and HPV-associated cytological abnormalities remain high despite successful treatments of HIV infection. Several HPV vaccines are currently available and recommended for adolescents and adults up to age 26. The vaccines are safe, immunogenic and effective in preventing diseases due to HPV types included in the vaccines, particularly among persons without prior HPV exposure. This review summarizes available data on the use of the HPV vaccines among HIV-infected women. The immunogenicity and safety of the vaccines are highlighted and in particular, barriers to vaccination among HIV-infected women are discussed.
NEW FINDINGS: What is the central question of this study? The prevalence of sedentary behaviour in the workplace and increased daily sitting time have been associated with the development of cardiovascular disease; however, studies investigating the impact of sitting on vascular function remain limited. What is the main finding and its importance? We demonstrate that there is a marked vulnerability of the vasculature in the lower and upper limbs to prolonged sitting and highlight the importance of physical activity in restoring vascular function in a limb-specific manner. Sedentary behaviour in the workplace and increased daily sitting time are on the rise; however, studies investigating the impact of sitting on vascular function remain limited. Herein, we hypothesized that 6 h of uninterrupted sitting would impair limb micro- and macrovascular dilator function and that this impairment could be improved with a bout of walking. Resting blood flow, reactive hyperaemia to 5 min cuff occlusion (microvascular reactivity) and associated flow-mediated dilatation (FMD; macrovascular reactivity) were assessed in popliteal and brachial arteries of young men at baseline (Pre Sit) and after 6 h of uninterrupted sitting (Post Sit). Measures were then repeated after a 10 min walk (~1000 steps). Sitting resulted in a marked reduction of resting popliteal artery mean blood flow and mean shear rate (6 h mean shear rate, -52 +/- 8 s(-1) versus Pre Sit, P < 0.05). Interestingly, reductions were also found in the brachial artery (6 h mean shear rate, -169 +/- 41 s(-1) versus Pre Sit, P < 0.05). Likewise, after 6 h of sitting, cuff-induced reactive hyperaemia was reduced in both the lower leg (-43 +/- 7% versus Pre Sit, P < 0.05) and forearm (-31 +/- 11% versus Pre Sit, P < 0.05). In contrast, popliteal but not brachial artery FMD was blunted with sitting. Notably, lower leg reactive hyperaemia and FMD were restored after walking. Collectively, these data suggest that prolonged sitting markedly reduces lower leg micro- and macrovascular dilator function, but these impairments can be fully normalized with a short bout of walking. In contrast, upper arm microvascular reactivity is selectively impaired with prolonged sitting, and walking does not influence this effect.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is one of the most common and severe chronic diseases affecting both children and adults. The aetiology of the disease remains unknown, and thus far no 'true' cure for those affected is available. Indeed, exogenous insulin replacement therapy to manage glucose metabolism to the best degree possible remains the current standard of care. However, despite a recent array of truly impressive improvements designed to enhance disease management (e.g. insulin analogues, continuous glucose monitoring, insulin pumps), it is still difficult for the vast majority of patients to reach recommended target HbA1C levels (< 7.0%). As a result of suboptimal disease management, far too many patients with T1D have an increased risk for disease-associated complications such as nephropathy, neuropathy and retinopathy, as well as hypoglycaemia. New treatment modalities are therefore needed urgently to bring a 'true' cure (disease prevention/disease reversal) to patients with T1D. Here we consider issues that collectively pose a major stumbling block in T1D research with respect to identifying a means to prevent and/or cure the disease. We begin this Perspective by discussing new insights emanating from studies of the pancreas in human T1D; findings which may, at least in part, explain why previous interventions seeking disease prevention/reversal have yielded insufficient benefit. We then turn to suggestions that could optimise the outcome of future clinical trials. Finally, we direct attention to recommendations for the global T1D research community; messages we deem to have the potential to improve our chances of finding the elusive T1D 'cure'.
The internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) from the ribosomal DNA was sequenced and characterized for ten cryptic species in the Anopheles punctulatus group, the members of which are major vectors of malaria and filariasis in the south-west Pacific. The length of the ITS2 ranged from 549 bp to 565 bp and displayed levels of sequence variation ranging from 2.3% to 24.3% due mainly to indels of simple sequences. The GC content varied from 61.3% to 70.9%. These values were higher than those found in other cryptic species of mosquitoes and comparable only to members of the An. dirus complex suggesting a possible link between this group of Asian mosquitoes and the An. punctulatus group. Optimal and suboptimal secondary structures were investigated and revealed structures where the 5' region folded independently of the 3' region. Due to the large level of sequence variation between species, the ITS2 region proved unsuitable for phylogenetic analysis.
Stem cell therapy is a promising tool for the treatment of diverse conditions, including neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). To understand transplanted stem cell biology, in vivo imaging is necessary. Nanomaterial has great potential for in vivo imaging and several noninvasive methods are used, such as magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, fluorescence imaging (FI) and near-infrared FI. However, each method has limitations for in vivo imaging. To overcome these limitations, multimodal nanoprobes have been developed. In the present study, we intravenously injected human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs) that were labeled with a multimodal nanoparticle, LEO-LIVE-Magnoxide 675 or 797 (BITERIALS, Seoul, Korea), into Tg2576 mice, an AD mouse model. After sequential in vivo tracking using Maestro Imaging System, we found fluorescence signals up to 10 days after injection. We also found strong signals in the brains extracted from hASC-transplanted Tg2576 mice up to 12 days after injection. With these results, we suggest that in vivo imaging with this multimodal nanoparticle may provide a useful tool for stem cell tracking and understanding stem cell biology in other neurodegenerative diseases.
INTRODUCTION: Diabetes-induced sexual dysfunction is associated with an increase in oxidative stress. Scavengers of reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been shown to reduce oxidative stress and aid in the management of sexual dysfunction in diabetes. AIM: The aim of the study was to test the hypothesis that antioxidant, which scavenge ROS and reduce formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), can potentiate efficacy of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors in diabetes-induced sexual dysfunction that is associated with oxidative stress. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Effect of phloroglucinol and sildenafil on serum glucose level, sexual function, penile smooth muscle : collagen ratio, and phenylephrine precontracted corpus cavernosum smooth muscle (CCSM) was studied. The ability of phloroglucinol to reduce the formation of AGEs and its ability to scavenge 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and nitric oxide (NO) was also evaluated. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Antioxidant potential of phloroglucinol was studied in addition to its effect on diabetes-induced sexual dysfunction in presence and absence of sildenafil. RESULTS: Phloroglucinol (50 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly decreased serum glucose level and increased sexual function in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats when compared with diabetic control rats. Sildenafil (5 mg/kg, p.o.) had no effect on glycemia but significantly increased sexual function of diabetic rats. Coadministration of phloroglucinol increased the efficacy of sildenafil by improving sexual function. Treatment of diabetic rats with phloroglucinol + sildenafil maintained smooth muscle : collagen levels similar to that of normal rat penile tissue. Phloroglucinol decreased formation of AGEs and significantly scavenged DPPH radical activity in vitro. Sildenafil relaxed isolated CCSM of normal rat and diabetic rat significantly, but phloroglucinol did not show any significant effect. Phloroglucinol also inhibited human CYP3A4 enzyme activity in vitro. CONCLUSION: Phloroglucinol coadministration increases efficacy of sildenafil in diabetes-induced sexual dysfunction. However, further studies are required to ascertain the benefits of phloroglucinol owing to its undesirable CYP3A4 inhibition activity.
Silybin is a composition of the silymarin group as a hepatoprotective agent, and it exhibits various biological activities, including an antibacterial activity. In this study, the effects of a combination of silybin with N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCCD) against clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa were investigated. In the results of susceptibility assay, silybin showed more potent antibacterial activity in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) than in P. aeruginosa, but DCCD significantly increased the antibacterial activity of silybin in P. aeruginosa. The antibacterial activity of silybin was affected by the strong action of multidrug-resistant pumps rather than by a permeable disruption of lipopolysaccharide and silybin showed a remarkable synergistic activity in combination with some antibiotic agents against drug-resistant bacteria. Therefore, silybin has a potential as a combination therapeutic agent for treatment of infectious diseases by multidrug-resistant bacteria.
AIMS: The aim of this study was to investigate whether and how metformin ameliorated endothelial dysfunction induced by fluctuating glucose (FG) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). METHODS: HUVECs, which were exposed to FG to induce endothelial dysfunction, were incubated with nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N-nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (l-NAME), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase inhibitor apocynin, metformin and/or adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inhibitor compound C. The oxidative stress and endothelial NOS (eNOS) coupling were evaluated. RESULTS: FG induced endothelial dysfunction as indicated by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and decreased nitric oxide (NO) production. Although FG increased eNOS phosphorylation, uncoupled eNOS was evidenced by downregulated guanosine 5'-triphosphate cyclohydrolase 1 (GTPCH1) and tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) levels. FG also upregulated the level of p47-phox, a subunit of NADPH oxidase. Similar to l-NAME and apocynin, metformin ameliorated the FG-induced endothelial dysfunction by decreasing ROS generation. Furthermore, metformin recoupled eNOS through upregulating GTPCH1 and BH4 levels, and attenuated the upregulation of p47-phox in FG-treated HUVECs. Addition of compound C abolished the above effects of metformin. CONCLUSION: Metformin improves the FG-induced endothelial dysfunction in HUVECs. The protective effect of metformin may be mediated through activation of GTPCH1-mediated eNOS recoupling and inhibition of NADPH oxidase via an AMPK-dependent pathway.
Glycosides, clausenosides A and B, and carbazole alkaloids, clausenaline A, claulamine A, and claulamine B, together with 50 known compounds, were isolated from the stems of Clausena lansium. Their structures were determined by means of spectroscopic methods, including that of CD and 1D/2D NMR analysis. Claulamine A has a 1-oxygenated carbazole skeleton with a rare 2,3-lactone ring, and claulamine B represents an hitherto unknown acetal carbazole alkaloid. Thirty-one of the isolated known compounds were evaluated in various assays for anti-inflammatory activity. Among them, imperatorin, isoheraclenin, and osthol exhibited selective and potent inhibition of formyl-l-methionyl-l-leucyl-l-phenylalanine/cytochalasin B (fMLP/CB)-induced superoxide anion generation, and lansiumarin C also decreased nitric oxide (NO) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced macrophages. In addition, a modified HPLC method of pre-column derivatization was developed that is more practical for simultaneous analysis of aldose enantiomers as compared to the literature method. The absolute configurations of the sugar moieties in clausenosides A and B were determined with this modified method.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the test-retest variability of spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) in measurement of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness and macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) thickness. METHODS: A total of 65 eyes of healthy subjects were enrolled in this observational cross-sectional study. RNFL thickness and GCIPL thickness were measured using the repeat scan optic cube and macular cube protocol using Cirrus HD-OCT (software version 6.0). A single operator obtained 3 measurements during 1 session to determine test-retest variability. Intrasession repeatability was defined by intraclass correlation, limits of agreement, and coefficient of variation. RESULTS: The mean age of patients was 37.89+/-15.11 years (range, 10 to 70 y). The mean RNFL thickness readings as measured during 3 sessions were 93.89+/-9.73, 93.63+/-10.00, and 93.55+/-9.64 mum and average GCIPL thickness measurements were 82.90+/-4.61, 82.98+/-4.24, and 83.06+/-4.36 mum, respectively. Coefficient of variation was 1.2 for average RNFL thickness and 0.82 for average GCIPL thickness. The intraclass correlation coefficient showed a good correlation between repeat measurements for both average RNFL and GCC thicknesses (0.994 and 0.990, respectively). The limits of agreement (95% confidence interval) for the 3 sessions ranged from -3.61 to 4.13 mum for the average RNFL thickness and -2.55 to 2.40 mum for GCIPL thickness measurements. CONCLUSIONS: In healthy eyes, Cirrus HD-OCT shows excellent intrasession repeatability for RNFL and GCIPL thickness measurements.
A large percentage of eukaryotic genomes consist of repetitive DNA that plays an important role in the organization, size and evolution. In the case of crickets, chromosomal variability has been found using classical cytogenetics, but almost no information concerning the organization of their repetitive DNAs is available. To better understand the chromosomal organization and diversification of repetitive DNAs in crickets, we studied the chromosomes of two Gryllidae species with highly divergent karyotypes, i.e., 2n(male symbol) = 29,X0 (Gryllus assimilis) and 2n = 9, neo-X1X2Y (Eneoptera surinamensis). The analyses were performed using classical cytogenetic techniques, repetitive DNA mapping and genome-size estimation. Conserved characteristics were observed, such as the occurrence of a small number of clusters of rDNAs and U snDNAs, in contrast to the multiple clusters/dispersal of the H3 histone genes. The positions of U2 snDNA and 18S rDNA are also conserved, being intermingled within the largest autosome. The distribution and base-pair composition of the heterochromatin and repetitive DNA pools of these organisms differed, suggesting reorganization. Although the microsatellite arrays had a similar distribution pattern, being dispersed along entire chromosomes, as has been observed in some grasshopper species, a band-like pattern was also observed in the E. surinamensis chromosomes, putatively due to their amplification and clustering. In addition to these differences, the genome of E. surinamensis is approximately 2.5 times larger than that of G. assimilis, which we hypothesize is due to the amplification of repetitive DNAs. Finally, we discuss the possible involvement of repetitive DNAs in the differentiation of the neo-sex chromosomes of E. surinamensis, as has been reported in other eukaryotic groups. This study provided an opportunity to explore the evolutionary dynamics of repetitive DNAs in two non-model species and will contribute to the understanding of chromosomal evolution in a group about which little chromosomal and genomic information is known.
Insoluble antibacterial cationic nanoparticles have been previously shown to have potent and long-lasting antibacterial properties. Our tested hypothesis was that root canal pathogens will be attracted to and eliminated when exposed to epoxy resin-based surfaces incorporating cationic nanoparticles. In our research, an epoxy resin-based surface incorporating quaternary ammonium polyethyleneimine (QPEI) nanoparticles was evaluated. Surface characterization was performed using atomic force microscopy and X-ray photoelectron spectra. The surface anti-Enterococcus faecalis effect was evaluated in an anti-gravitational model. Cell membrane potential, viability, biofilm thickness, and biomass were tested using flow cytometry and confocal laser scanning microscopy. Additionally, the antibiofilm activity of the bacterial supernatant was assessed. The surface characterization showed QPEI nanoparticle embedment on the modified sealer. The epoxy resin-based surface incorporating the QPEI nanoparticles actively attracted bacteria, causing membrane destabilization, and bacterial death. The supernatant of bacteria pre-exposed to QPEI showed an antibacterial effect. In conclusion, the tested epoxy resin-based surface incorporating QPEI nanoparticles traps and kills bacteria. The nanoparticles attracted bacteria, reducing their viability, and promoting cell death.
The fungal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans (Cn) is a serious threat to immunocompromised individuals, especially for HIV patients who develop meningoencephalitis. For effective cryptococcal treatment, novel antifungal drugs or innovative combination therapies are needed. Recently, sphingolipids have emerged as important bioactive molecules in the regulation of microbial pathogenesis. Previously we reported that the sphingolipid pathway gene, ISC1, which is responsible for ceramide production, is a major virulence factor in Cn infection. Here we report our studies of the role of ISC1 during genotoxic stress induced by the antineoplastic hydroxyurea (HU) and methyl methanesulfonate (MMS), which affect DNA replication and genome integrity. We observed that Cn cells lacking ISC1 are highly sensitive to HU and MMS in a rich culture medium. HU affected cell division of Cn cells lacking the ISC1 gene, resulting in cell clusters. Cn ISC1, when expressed in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Sc) strain lacking its own ISC1 gene, restored HU resistance. In macrophage-like cells, although HU affected the proliferation of wild type (WT) Cn cells by 50% at the concentration tested, HU completely inhibited Cn isc1Delta cell proliferation. Interestingly, our preliminary data show that mice infected with WT or Cn isc1Delta cells and subsequently treated with HU had longer lifespans than untreated, infected control mice. Our work suggests that the sphingolipid pathway gene, ISC1, is a likely target for combination therapy with traditional drugs such as HU.
Periventricular white matter injury (PWMI) is the leading cause of chronic neurologic injury among survivors of preterm birth. The hallmark of PWMI is hypomyelination and a lack of mature, myelinating oligodendrocytes. Oligodendrocytes undergo a well-characterized lineage progression from neural stem cell to mature oligodendrocyte. Oligodendrocyte precursors have increased susceptibility to oxidative and free radical-mediated injury compared with mature oligodendrocytes as a result of lower levels of antioxidant enzymes and free radical scavengers. In this study, we show that oxidative stress disrupts oligodendrocyte differentiation by two mechanisms. First, oxidizing agents decrease the expression of key genes that promote oligodendrocyte differentiation from neural stem cells and increase the expression of genes known to inhibit differentiation. Second, global histone acetylation persists under conditions of oxidative stress, further contributing to the prevention of oligodendrocyte differentiation. Both of these mechanisms result in the arrest of oligodendrocyte differentiation without an increase in cell death.
Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is characterized by focal lesions of hemorrhage and necrosis, primarily in the inferior temporal lobe. Since immunosuppressed patients with HSE lack the focal inflammatory changes and temporal lobe localization, it has been suggested that the immune system participates in the pathogenesis of HSE. Evaluation of this hypothesis has been impeded by the lack of an immunologically defined animal model that resembles the human disease. Toward this end, 10 strains of inbred mice were infected intranasally with a neurovirulent clinical isolate of herpes simplex virus type 1. Most mice died without localizing signs of disease in the central nervous system. However, a significant number of SJL mice had a pattern of encephalitis highly reminiscent of that described in humans. To our knowledge, this is the first murine model that faithfully mimics this human disease, and thus it affords the opportunity to study the immunopathogenesis of HSE.
Genome-wide searches for loci involved in human resistance to malaria are currently being conducted on a large scale in Africa using case-control studies. Here, we explore the utility of an alternative approach-"environmental correlation analysis, ECA," which tests for clines in allele frequencies across a gradient of an environmental selection pressure-to identify genes that have historically protected against death from malaria. We collected genotype data from 12,425 newborns on 57 candidate malaria resistance loci and 9,756 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) selected at random from across the genome, and examined their allele frequencies for geographic correlations with long-term malaria prevalence data based on 84,042 individuals living under different historical selection pressures from malaria in coastal Kenya. None of the 57 candidate SNPs showed significant (P < 0.05) correlations in allele frequency with local malaria transmission intensity after adjusting for population structure and multiple testing. In contrast, two of the random SNPs that had highly significant correlations (P < 0.01) were in genes previously linked to malaria resistance, namely, CDH13, encoding cadherin 13, and HS3ST3B1, encoding heparan sulfate 3-O-sulfotransferase 3B1. Both proteins play a role in glycoprotein-mediated cell-cell adhesion which has been widely implicated in cerebral malaria, the most life-threatening form of this disease. Other top genes, including CTNND2 which encodes delta-catenin, a molecular partner to cadherin, were significantly enriched in cadherin-mediated pathways affecting inflammation of the brain vascular endothelium. These results demonstrate the utility of ECA in the discovery of novel genes and pathways affecting infectious disease.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae and related species, the main workhorses of wine fermentation, have been exposed to stressful conditions for millennia, potentially resulting in adaptive differentiation. As a result, wine yeasts have recently attracted considerable interest for studying the evolutionary effects of domestication. The widespread use of whole-genome sequencing during the last decade has provided new insights into the biodiversity, population structure, phylogeography and evolutionary history of wine yeasts. Comparisons between S. cerevisiae isolates from various origins have indicated that a variety of mechanisms, including heterozygosity, nucleotide and structural variations, introgressions, horizontal gene transfer and hybridization, contribute to the genetic and phenotypic diversity of S. cerevisiae. This review will summarize the current knowledge on the diversity and evolutionary history of wine yeasts, focusing on the domestication fingerprints identified in these strains.
Cholesterol oxidase (COD) is a bi-functional FAD-containing oxidoreductase which catalyzes the oxidation of cholesterol into 4-cholesten-3-one. The wider biological functions and clinical applications of COD have urged the screening, isolation and characterization of newer microbes from diverse habitats as a source of COD and optimization and over-production of COD for various uses. The practicability of statistical/ artificial intelligence techniques, such as response surface methodology (RSM), artificial neural network (ANN) and genetic algorithm (GA) have been tested to optimize the medium composition for the production of COD from novel strain Streptomyces sp. NCIM 5500. All experiments were performed according to the five factor central composite design (CCD) and the generated data was analysed using RSM and ANN. GA was employed to optimize the models generated by RSM and ANN. Based upon the predicted COD concentration, the model developed with ANN was found to be superior to the model developed with RSM. The RSM-GA approach predicted maximum of 6.283 U/mL COD production, whereas the ANN-GA approach predicted a maximum of 9.93 U/mL COD concentration. The optimum concentrations of the medium variables predicted through ANN-GA approach were: 1.431 g/50 mL soybean, 1.389 g/50 mL maltose, 0.029 g/50 mL MgSO4, 0.45 g/50 mL NaCl and 2.235 ml/50 mL glycerol. The experimental COD concentration was concurrent with the GA predicted yield and led to 9.75 U/mL COD production, which was nearly two times higher than the yield (4.2 U/mL) obtained with the un-optimized medium. This is the very first time we are reporting the statistical versus artificial intelligence based modeling and optimization of COD production by Streptomyces sp. NCIM 5500.
The study of the dynamics and functions of microglia in the healthy and diseased brain is a matter of intense scientific activity. The application of new techniques and new experimental approaches has allowed the identification of novel microglial functions and the redefinition of classic ones. In this review, we propose the study of microglial functions, rather than their molecular profiles, to better understand and define the roles of these cells in the brain. We review current knowledge on the role of surveillant microglia, proliferating microglia, pruning/neuromodulatory microglia, phagocytic microglia, and inflammatory microglia and the molecular profiles that are associated with these functions. In the remodeling scenario of microglial biology, the analysis of microglial functional states will inform about the roles in health and disease and will guide us to a more precise understanding of the multifaceted roles of this never-resting cells.
The omega6 and omega3 pathways are two major pathways in the biosynthesis of PUFAs. In both of these, delta 6 desaturase (FADS6) is a key bifunctional enzyme desaturating linoleic acid or alpha-linolenic acid. Microbial species have different propensity for accumulating omega6- or omega3-series PUFAs, which may be determined by the substrate preference of FADS6 enzyme. In the present study, we analyzed the molecular mechanism of FADS6 substrate specificity. FADS6 cDNAs were cloned from Mortierella alpina (ATCC 32222) and Micromonas pusilla (CCMP1545) that synthesized high levels of arachidonic acid and EPA, respectively. M. alpina FADS6 (MaFADS6-I) showed substrate preference for LA; whereas, M. pusilla FADS6 (MpFADS6) preferred ALA. To understand the structural basis of substrate specificity, MaFADS6-I and MpFADS6 sequences were divided into five sections and a domain swapping approach was used to examine the role of each section in substrate preference. Our results showed that sequences between the histidine boxes I and II played a pivotal role in substrate preference. Based on our domain swapping results, nine amino acid (aa) residues were targeted for further analysis by site-directed mutagenesis. G194L, E222S, M227K, and V399I/I400E substitutions interfered with substrate recognition, which suggests that the corresponding aa residues play an important role in this process.
It has a great therapeutic significance that the disorder of the vascular endothelium, which supplies the affected ocular structures, plays a major role in the development of age-related macular degeneration. Chronic inflammation is closely linked to diseases associated with endothelial dysfuncition and age-related macular degeneration is accompanied by a general inflammatory response. The vascular wall including those in chorioids may be activated by several repeated and/or prolonged mechanical, physical, chemical, microbiological, immunologic and genetic factors causing a protracted host defence response with a consequent vascular damage, which leads to age-related macular degeneration. Based on this concept, age-related macular degeneration is a local manifestation of the systemic vascular disease. This recognition should have therapeutic implications because restoration of endothelial dysfunction can stabilize the condition of chronic vascular disease including age-related macular degeneration, as well. Restoration of endothelial dysfunction by non-pharmacological or pharmacological interventions may prevent the development or improve endothelial dysfunction resulting in prevention or improvement of age-related macular degeneration. Non-pharmacological interventions which may have beneficial effect in endothelial dysfunction include (1) smoking cessation; (2) reduction of increased body weight; (3) adequate physical activity; (4) appropriate diet (a) proper dose of flavonoids, polyphenols and kurcumin; (b) omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids: docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid; (c) carotenoids, lutein and zeaxanthins), (d) management of dietary glycemic index, (e) caloric restriction, and (5) elimination of stressful lifestyle. Non-pharmacological interventions should be preferable even if medicaments are also used for the treatment of endothelial dysfunction.
Caveolin 1 (Cav-1) is an oligomeric protein that forms flask-shaped, lipid-rich pits, termed caveolae, on the plasma membrane. Cav-1 is targeted for lysosomal degradation in ubiquitination- and valosin-containing protein (VCP)-dependent manners. VCP, an ATPase associated with diverse cellular activities that remodels or segregates ubiquitinated protein complexes, has been proposed to disassemble Cav-1 oligomers on the endosomal membrane, facilitating the trafficking of Cav-1 to the lysosome. Genetic mutations in VCP compromise the lysosomal trafficking of Cav-1, leading to a disease called inclusion body myopathy with Paget disease of bone and/or frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD). Here we identified the Ankrd13 family of ubiquitin-interacting motif (UIM)-containing proteins as novel VCP-interacting molecules on the endosome. Ankrd13 proteins formed a ternary complex with VCP and Cav-1 and exhibited high binding affinity for ubiquitinated Cav-1 oligomers in an UIM-dependent manner. Mass spectrometric analyses revealed that Cav-1 undergoes Lys-63-linked polyubiquitination, which serves as a lysosomal trafficking signal, and that the UIMs of Ankrd13 proteins bind preferentially to this ubiquitin chain type. The overexpression of Ankrd13 caused enlarged hollow late endosomes, which was reminiscent of the phenotype of the VCP mutations in IBMPFD. Overexpression of Ankrd13 proteins also stabilized ubiquitinated Cav-1 oligomers on the limiting membrane of enlarged endosomes. The interaction with Ankrd13 was abrogated in IMBPFD-associated VCP mutants. Collectively, our results suggest that Ankrd13 proteins cooperate with VCP to regulate the lysosomal trafficking of ubiquitinated Cav-1.
BACKGROUND: Reliable predictions of Cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes are essential for rational vaccine design. Most importantly, they can minimize the experimental effort needed to identify epitopes. NetCTL is a web-based tool designed for predicting human CTL epitopes in any given protein. It does so by integrating predictions of proteasomal cleavage, TAP transport efficiency, and MHC class I affinity. At least four other methods have been developed recently that likewise attempt to predict CTL epitopes: EpiJen, MAPPP, MHC-pathway, and WAPP. In order to compare the performance of prediction methods, objective benchmarks and standardized performance measures are needed. Here, we develop such large-scale benchmark and corresponding performance measures and report the performance of an updated version 1.2 of NetCTL in comparison with the four other methods. RESULTS: We define a number of performance measures that can handle the different types of output data from the five methods. We use two evaluation datasets consisting of known HIV CTL epitopes and their source proteins. The source proteins are split into all possible 9 mers and except for annotated epitopes; all other 9 mers are considered non-epitopes. In the RANK measure, we compare two methods at a time and count how often each of the methods rank the epitope highest. In another measure, we find the specificity of the methods at three predefined sensitivity values. Lastly, for each method, we calculate the percentage of known epitopes that rank within the 5% peptides with the highest predicted score. CONCLUSION: NetCTL-1.2 is demonstrated to have a higher predictive performance than EpiJen, MAPPP, MHC-pathway, and WAPP on all performance measures. The higher performance of NetCTL-1.2 as compared to EpiJen and MHC-pathway is, however, not statistically significant on all measures. In the large-scale benchmark calculation consisting of 216 known HIV epitopes covering all 12 recognized HLA supertypes, the NetCTL-1.2 method was shown to have a sensitivity among the 5% top-scoring peptides above 0.72. On this dataset, the best of the other methods achieved a sensitivity of 0.64. The NetCTL-1.2 method is available at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetCTL. All used datasets are available at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/suppl/immunology/CTL-1.2.php.
Heat shock proteins (Hsps), which have important biological functions, are a class of highly conserved genetic molecules with the capacity of protecting and promoting cells to repair themselves from damage caused by various stimuli. Our previous studies found that Hsp25, HspB2, HspB3, HspB7, Hsp20, HspB9, HspB10, and Hsp40 may be related to all-trans retinoic acid (atRA)-induced phocomelic and other abnormalities, while HspA12B, HspA14, Trap1, and Hsp105 may be forelimb development-related genes; Grp78 may play an important role in forelimb development. In this study, the embryonic phocomelic, oligodactylic model of both forelimbs and hindlimbs was developed by atRA administered per os to the pregnant mice on gestational day 11, and the expression of 36 members of Hsps family in normal and abnormal development of embryonic hindlimbs was measured by real-time fluorescent quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). It is found that HspA1L, Hsp22, Hsp10, Hsp60, Hsp47, HspB2, HspB10, HspA12A, Apg1, HspB4, Grp78, and HspB9 probably performs a major function in limb development, and HspA13, Grp94 and Hsp110 may be hindlimb development-related genes.
BACKGROUND: To compare efficacy of simvastatin with GnRHa (Decapeptyl 3.75 mg) on endometriosis-related pains following surgery for endometriosis. MATERIAL/METHODS: Sixty women with pelvic endometriosis, after laparoscopic diagnosis and conservative laparoscopic surgery, were treated with either simvastatin (n=30) for 16 weeks or Decapeptyl (n=30) every 4 weeks for 4 doses. RESULTS: Using VAS, the score of dyspareunia, dysmenorrhea, and pelvic pain 6 months after laparoscopic surgery declined significantly in both groups (p=0.001), but the difference between results of the 2 groups was not significant (p>0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Both treatment modalities showed comparable effectiveness in the treatment of pains related to endometriosis.
Coxiella burnetii is a highly infectious bacterial pathogen that replicates in a specialized vacuole inside eukaryotic cells. Due to a prolonged growth cycle, Coxiella continuously manipulates cellular processes to generate this parasitophorous vacuole (PV) and promote host cell viability. Here, we discuss recent findings that indicate Coxiella modulates several host signaling pathways to influence survival and ensure intracellular replication. The pathogen actively inhibits apoptotic cell death and activates the pro-survival kinases Akt and Erk1/2 to promote host viability. Coxiella's anti-apoptotic activity also involves the interface between autophagy and apoptosis, which is regulated by the interaction of autophagy-related Beclin-1 and anti-apoptotic Bcl-2. Additionally, Coxiella requires host kinase activity for PV biogenesis and maintenance. Thus, signaling modulation by Coxiella is critical for multiple aspects of host cell parasitism. Collectively, recent signaling studies have enhanced our understanding of the unique Coxiella-host cell interaction. Identification of bacterial factors that regulate signaling events will further our ability to model this intriguing infectious process.
Monitoring of cyanobacteria and their associated toxins has intensified in raw water sources of drinking water treatment plants (WTPs) in most countries of the world. However, it is not explored yet for Egyptian WTPs. Therefore, this study was undertaken to investigate the occurrence of cyanobacteria and their microcystin (MC) toxins in the Nile River source water of Damietta WTP during warm months (April-September 2013) and to evaluate the removal efficiency of both cyanobacterial cells and MCs by conventional methods used in this plant as a representative of Egyptian drinking WTPs. The results showed that the source water at the intake of Damietta WTP contained dense cyanobacterial population (1.1-6.6 x 107 cells L(-1)) dominated by Microcystis aeruginosa. This bloom was found to produce MC-RR and MC-LR. Both cyanobacterial cell density and intracellular MCs in the intake source water increased with the increase in temperature and nutrients during the study period, with maximum values obtained in August. During treatment processes, cyanobacterial cells were incompletely removed by coagulation/flocculation/sedimentation (C/F/S; 91-96.8%) or sand filtration (93.3-98.9%). Coagulation/flocculation induced the release of MCs into the ambient water, and the toxins were not completely removed or degraded during further treatment stages (filtration and chlorination). MCs in outflow tank water were detected in high concentrations (1.1-3.6 mug L - 1), exceeding WHO provisional guideline value of 1 mug L - 1 for MC-LR in drinking water. Based on this study, regular monitoring of cyanobacteria and their cyanotoxins in the intake source water and at different stages at all WTPs is necessary to provide safe drinking water to consumers or to prevent exposure of consumers to hazardous cyanobacterial metabolites.
We previously reported the presence of six different cis-acting elements (Ad1 to Ad6) in the promoter region of the bovine CYP11B gene. Although the Ad1 site (TGACGTGA) was similar to a palindromic CRE (TGACGTCA), two other upstream sequences, Ad3 and Ad4, were identified as the cAMP response sequences of the gene. We analyzed the functional relationship between the Ad1 site and the upstream elements. Mutation analyses of the Ad1 site indicated that the 5' half of the site (TGACG) was important for the transcription of the gene in vitro. In Y-1 cells, a plasmid with a mutated Ad1 showed no response to cAMP. The effect of the mutation at the Ad1 site on the cAMP response was almost the same as that of the deletion of Ad3 and Ad4, although the role of each element seemed to be different. These results indicated that both the Ad1 site and the upstream elements, Ad3 and Ad4, were necessary for the full response to cAMP of the CYP11B gene. When the Ad1 site in the promoter region was replaced with a palindromic CRE, elevated transcription activity was detected both in vitro and in vivo. Two kinds of CREBs (43 and 47 kDa) purified from a HeLa cell nuclear extract bound to the Ad1 site. The binding of the palindromic CRE to the nuclear factor(s) was stronger than that of Ad1.
Diastereoselectivity-enhanced mutants of L: -threonine aldolase (L: -TA) for L: -threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (L: -threo-DOPS) synthesis were isolated by error-prone PCR followed by a high-throughput screening. The most improved mutant was achieved from the mutant T3-3mm2, showing a 4-fold increase over the wild-type L: -TA. When aldol condensation activity was examined using whole cells of T3-3mm2, its de was constantly maintained at 55% during the batch reactions for 80 h, yielding 3.8 mg L: -threo-DOPS/ml.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the role of transition zone prostate-specific antigen density (TZPSAD) in determining rebiopsy strategy in men with prostate inflammation at initial biopsy. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Analysis was performed on data derived from transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy registry containing 2461 men who underwent biopsy between March 2005 and January 2015. Eligible patients were divided into 2 groups based on the presence of chronic inflammation in prostate. Group 1 consisted of 920 patients with histopathologic evidence of chronic inflammation and group 2 consisted of 1287 patients with no evidence of inflammation. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed to evaluate the accuracy of PSA, PSA density (PSAD), and TZPSAD for detecting prostate cancer (PCa) in each group. Patients who underwent rebiopsy during the study period were further assessed to determine factors that may predict the presence of PCa on subsequent biopsies. RESULTS: In group 1 patients, at 90% sensitivity for detecting PCa, PSAD and TZPSAD showed 19.7% and 37.8% specificity at cutoff values of 0.10 and 0.27 ng/mL/mL respectively, whereas in group 2 patients, PSAD and TZPSAD revealed 29.8% and 31.4% specificity, respectively. Chronic inflammation at initial biopsy was associated with a significant decrease in the likelihood of cancer detection during rebiopsy (odds ratio, 0.42; 95% confidence interval, 0.18-0.99). TZPSAD was found to be capable of sparing 39.8% of unnecessary rebiopsies in group 1 patients, whereas it spared 20.5% of unnecessary rebiopsies in group 2 patients. CONCLUSION: Applying TZPSAD is advantageous in determining rebiopsy strategy in patients with proven inflammation of prostate at initial biopsy.
Accumulating evidence suggests a role of inflammation in the pathophysiology of a number of neuropsychiatric diseases. The second generation antibiotic drug minocycline has potent neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects. We reported that minocycline could attenuate behavioral abnormalities and dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice after administration of methamphetamine or 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). Furthermore, we reported that minocycline was effective in the animal models of schizophrenia. Moreover, a double-blind, placebo-control, cross-over study showed that minocycline was effective in the rewarding effects in healthy human subjects. In this article, we would like to discuss minocycline as a potential therapeutic drug for methamphetamine-related disorders.
Ovarian tumors often exhibit chromosome instability and hypersensitivity to the chemotherapeutic agent cisplatin. Recently, we have shown that this cellular phenotype may result from an acquired disruption of the Fanconi Anemia/BRCA (FA/BRCA) signaling pathway. Disruption results from methylation and silencing of one of the FA genes (FANCF), leading to cisplatin sensitivity. Restoration of this pathway is associated with demethylation of FANCF, leading to acquired cisplatinum resistance. The serial inactivation and reactivation of the FA/BRCA pathway has important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cancers and related cancers.
BACKGROUND AIMS: Treatment of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs) with connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and ascorbic acid promoted their tenogenic differentiation. We investigated the effects of TDSCs pre-treated with CTGF and ascorbic acid on tendon repair in a patellar tendon window injury rat model. METHODS: Green fluorescent protein-TDSCs (GFP-TDSCs) were pre-treated with or without CTGF and ascorbic acid for 2 weeks before transplantation. The patellar tendons of rats were injured and divided into three groups: fibrin glue-only group (control group), untreated and treated TDSC group. The rats were followed up until week 16. RESULTS: The treated TDSCs accelerated and enhanced the quality of tendon repair compared with untreated TDSCs up to week 8, which was better than that in the controls up to week 16 as shown by histology, ultrasound imaging and biomechanical test. The fibrils in the treated TDSC group showed better alignment and larger size compared with those in the control group at week 8 (P = 0.004). There was lower risk of ectopic mineralization after transplantation of treated or untreated TDSCs (all P </= 0.050). The transplanted cells proliferated and could be detected in the window wound up to weeks 2 to 4 and week 8 for the untreated and treated TDSC groups, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: The transplantation of TDSCs promoted tendon repair up to week 16, with CTGF and ascorbic acid pre-treatment showing the best results up to week 8. Pre-treatment of TDSCs with CTGF and ascorbic acid may be used to further enhance the rate and quality of tendon repair after injury.
Active transport of exogenous sulfate into log phase cells of Porphyridium aerueineum followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics, and the apparent Km for sulfate transport is approximately 2.5 x 10(-6)m. Molybdate, also a group VI anion, is a competitive inhibitor of sulfate transport, and the inhibition is freely reversible. Once in the cell, molybdate depresses the rate of sulfate pool utilization by blocking sulfate transfer to polysaccharides destined for secretion to the cell surface. Specifically, molybdate inhibits the formation of adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate and in turn the formation of adenosine 3'-phosphate 5'-phosphosulfate, the activated donor for sulfate transfer reactions. Combined with the previous identification of adenosine 3'-phosphate 5'-phosphosulfate, this is taken as evidence that the adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate/adenosine 3'-phosphate 5'-phosphosulfate enzymatic sequence for sulfate activation and sulfate donor reactions is operating in Porphyridium. Thiosulfate is utilized as effectively as sulfate as both a sulfur source for growth and polysaccharide synthesis.
This paper reviews the specificity of tumor markers recently introduced in clinical use, namely CA 19-9, CA 125, CA 15-3, CA 50 and SCC antigen. It appears that a large number of either biological conditions (age, sex, pregnancy, menstruation etc.), intoxication (smoking and alcohol addictions) or various non-malignant diseases do affect the serum levels of tumor markers. These data are of practical use in the interpretation of tumor marker determinations in the follow-up of cancer patients.
Associated with amiodarone use is pneumonitis which may progress to life-threatening pulmonary fibrosis. Desethylamiodarone, a metabolite, whose role in the etiology of amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity has been unclear, also possesses antiarrhythmic activity and could potentially be used as an antiarrhythmic drug itself. We have used a single intratracheal administration of equimolar amounts of amiodarone or desethylamiodarone (1.83 mumol) to male golden Syrian hamsters to investigate the fibrogenicity of desethylamiodarone. Animals were terminated at 1, 7, 14, 21, and 28 days post-treatment, and toxicity was assessed by measurement of lung hydroxyproline content and by histological techniques. Amiodarone and desethylamiodarone significantly increased lung hydroxyproline content over vehicle control animals by 21 days (33 and 58% respectively). While amiodarone-treated lungs had hydroxyproline contents similar to control levels at 28 days, desethylamiodarone-treated lungs remained elevated (44% over control values). Quantitative histologic examination revealed that lungs from desethylamiodarone-treated animals displayed a greater toxic effect, while trichrome staining confirmed the increased deposition of interstitial collagen in these same animals. These results may be due to the higher affinity of the lung for desethylamiodarone and thus a prolonged exposure. The findings indicate that, in the hamster, both compounds are toxic by this route and that desethylamiodarone is not a nontoxic metabolite. Further, use of desethylamiodarone as an antiarrhythmic agent may not be devoid of the adverse effects associated with amiodarone.
AIMS: To determine genetic predispsitions for diabetic cerebral ischemia, we investigated the relationship between the -866G>A polymorphism of uncoupling protein (UCP) 2 and the risk of ischemic stroke in two cohorts of type 2 diabetic patients. METHODS: A total of 844 type 2 diabetic patients with 4-year prospective study were examined using a case-control methodology. And 404 cases with ischemical stroke, 440 cases without ischemical stroke. The -866G>A polymorphism in UCP2 was genotyped by TaqMan MGB probe method. RESULTS: The -866G>A SNP in UCP2 was significantly associated with diabetic ischemical stroke (odds ratio [OR]= 1.94; 95% confidence interval [CI]= 0.68 to1.31; P < 0.037). Similar results were observed for baseline cases of IS. Stratification by sex confirmed an allelic association with IS in women, whereas no association was observed in men. CONCLUSIONS: The A allele of the -866G>A variant of UCP2 was associated with increased risk of IS in Chinese diabetic women with type 2 diabetes in a 4-year prospective study. This association was independent of other common IS risk factors.
The kinetics of gelsolin interaction with actin filaments have been investigated using two fluorescent probes, tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate-labeled phalloidin bound to F-actin and N-(1-pyrenyl)iodoacetamide-labeled actin. We have also analyzed the F-actin severing by gelsolin using an assay for actin filaments which measures the polymerization rate of monomeric actin added to the gelsolin-severed filaments. Phalloidin-stabilized actin filaments were used in order to minimize the depolymerization reaction and thus simplify the kinetic analysis. Because gelsolin activity is Ca(2+)-activated, experiments were conducted in the presence of 0.5 mM CaCl2 to ensure maximal activity. We show that the interaction of gelsolin with F-actin may be separated into two distinct kinetic phases which correspond to binding and severing events. Using a two-step model of gelsolin activity, we have determined that gelsolin binds to F-actin with an association rate constant of 2 x 10(7) M-1 s-1, dissociates with a rate constant in the range 0.4-1.2 s-1, and subsequently severs phalloidin-stabilized F-actin with a first-order rate constant of 0.25 s-1. Characterization of the binding and severing reactions will facilitate further investigation of gelsolin activity and its regulation.
Heat shock (44 degrees C) applied for only 15 min induced the development of neurites in neuroblastoma cells 3-6 days later. During the first day after heat shock a transient increase in the rate of cytokinesis together with a synchronizing effect was observed, which led to waves of cytokinesis 14.5 h apart. Individual cell cycles were determined and showed a lengthening in the minimal cell cycle duration and a decrease in the cell cycle variance after shock. Two to 3 days after heat shock the proliferation rate decreased and then recovered. During the 6 days after heat shock, total protein synthesis was lower compared to the untreated cultures. The synthesis of heat shock proteins (100, 90, 84, 70, 68 kDa and some of lower MW) reached a maximum 6 h after heat shock. Parallel changes in the phosphorylation state of proteins were observed in an in vitro assay. Four proteins (100, 89, 67, and 15 kDa) increased and two proteins (97, 73 kDa) decreased their phosphorylation state significantly. Six days after heat shock two proteins (89, 55 kDa) increased their phosphorylation state; the 55-kDa phosphoprotein was identified as tubulin. The effect of heat shock on the intracellular calcium level was determined by measuring Fura 2 fluorescence. Six hours after shock, the Ca2+ level increased to a maximum (about three times the control value) and then dropped during the following days below the control values. We conclude from these results that a decrease in the calcium level may be causally involved in the differentiation process. The calcium effect is probably mediated by changes in the activity of different kinases. This assumption is compatible with the results of experiments with cyclic nucleotides when 10(-5) M cAMP and cGMP were added to in vitro assays of protein phosphorylation. They had different stimulating effects in heat-shocked, differentiating, and growing (control) cells.
JAK2 V617F, identified in the majority of patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms, tyrosine phosphorylates SOCS3 and escapes its inhibition. Here, we demonstrate that the JAK2 exon 12 mutants described in a subset of V617F-negative MPN cases, also stabilize tyrosine phosphorylated SOCS3. SOCS3 tyrosine phosphorylation was also observed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and granulocytes isolated from patients with JAK2 H538QK539L or JAK2 F537-K539delinsL mutations. JAK kinase inhibitors, which effectively inhibited the proliferation of cells expressing V617F or K539L, also caused a dose-dependent reduction in both mutant JAK2 and SOCS3 tyrosine phosphorylation. We propose, therefore, that SOCS3 tyrosine phosphorylation may be a novel bio-marker of myeloproliferative neoplasms resulting from a JAK2 mutation and a potential reporter of effective JAK2 inhibitor therapy currently in clinical development.
To avoid long-double-stranded-RNA-dependent interferon response, short-interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are widely used for RNA interference (RNAi) in mammalian cells. siRNA-based RNAi, however, may not be readily available for the large-scale gene silencing essential for systematic functional genomics, because only a limited fraction of siRNAs is capable of inducing effective mammalian RNAi. siRNAs correctly designed for the knockdown of a particular gene may also destroy the functions of unrelated genes. Here, we describe algorithms by which these serious setbacks can be eliminated in mammalian functional genomics using RNAi and a Web-based online software system for computing highly functional siRNA sequences with maximal target-specificity in mammalian RNAi.
In epidemiological investigations of community legionellosis outbreaks, knowledge of the prevalence, distribution, and clinical significance (virulence) of environmental Legionella isolates is crucial for interpretation of the molecular subtyping results. To obtain such information for Legionella pneumophila serogroup 1 isolates, we used the standardized amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) protocol of the European Working Group on Legionella Infection to subtype L. pneumophila SG1 isolates obtained from patients and water sources in Queensland, Australia. An AFLP genotype, termed AF1, was predominant in isolates from both patients (40.5%) and water (49.0%). The second most common AFLP genotype found in water isolates was AF16 (36.5%), but this genotype was not identified in the patient isolates. When virulence gene-based PCR assays for lvh and rtxA genes were applied to the isolates from patients and water, nearly all (65 of 66) AF1 strains had both virulence genes, lvh and rtxA. In contrast, neither the lvh nor the rtxA gene was found in the AF16 strains, except for one isolate with the rtxA gene. It appears that this may explain the failure to find this genotype in the isolates from patients even though it may be common in the environment. In view of the evidence that the AF1 genotype is the most common genotype among strains found in patients and water sources in this region, any suggested epidemiological link derived from comparing the AF1 genotype from patient isolates with the AF1 genotype from environmental isolates must be interpreted and acted on with caution. The use of virulence gene-based PCR assays applied to environmental samples may be helpful in determining the infection potential of the isolates involved.
Atrophy of skeletal muscle is a response that is considered as the most consistent under conditions of real and simulated weightlessness. Microgravity is transformed in the motor system into a number of factors, the most important of them are considered axial unloading and support unloading. The effects of support stimulus may be evaluated in studies under conditions of dry immersion (DI) which provides the equal distribution of the mechanical pressure (e.g. hydrostatic pressure) throughout the surface of the body. Thus the deprivation of the gradient of the mechanical pressure simulates the supportless conditions. The study was aimed to test if the support unloading simulated in dry immersion induces not only functional but also structural alterations in human postural muscles.
Intra-articular corticosteroid injection and radiation of the wrist was performed in a patient on immunosuppressive therapy. She sustained empyema and impending compartment syndrome. After fasciotomy, debridement and antibiotic therapy had been performed, we provided soft tissue coverage by a combined ALTP and muscular free flap on the vascular trunk of the descending branch of the lateral circumflex femoral artery. There were no complications and the patient is very satisfied with the outcome.
Nude mice with different genetic backgrounds were used for the experiment to evaluate the growth of human and murine tumors in the different hosts. Twelve human tumors including 5 gastric carcinomas (St-4, St-10, St-15, St-40, KS-1), 2 colon carcinomas (Co-3, Exp-42), 1 breast carcinoma (MX-1), 1 bile duct carcinoma (Ch-1), 1 hepatocellular hepatoma (Li-4) and 2 hemangiosarcomas (LC-27-R, LC-27-UR), and one murine tumor spontaneously arisen from C3H/HeN nu/+ mouse were transplanted into the subcutaneous tissue of nude mice with genetic backgrounds of BALB/cA, DDD and ICR (CD-1). BALB/cA-nu was originated from the Central Institute for Experimental Animals, DDD-nu was supplied from the Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo and ICR (CD-1)-nu was supplied from Charles River Co., Ltd. Tumors were measured by the width (W) and length (L) three times a week by the same person. The tumor volume (V) was estimated by the formula V = W2 X L/2. Tumor doubling time (Td) during the exponential growth phase was compared between the nude mice with different genetic backgrounds. It was found that Td of MX-1 in DDD-nu mice and Td of St-40 and Exp-42 in BALB/cA-nu mice were shortened in comparison with those of tumors transplanted into nude mice with the other strains. However, no statistically significant differences were observed when t-test of matched pairs and coefficients of correlation were applied to compare Td in the other kinds of nude mice. Nude mice with genetic backgrounds of DDD and ICR (CD-1) were thought to be also useful for various kinds of therapeutic experiments in human tumor xenografts/nude mice system.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of hematologic disorders characterized by peripheral cytopenias in the setting of a normocellular or hypercellular bone marrow that morphologically shows trilineage dysplasia. Mechanisms of disease include pluripotent stem cell damage, abnormalities in proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis leading to an ineffective hematopoiesis. A growing body of evidence support angiogenesis as having a key role in the pathophysiology of hematologic malignancies, including MDS. Knowledge and interest in angiogenesis and its interactions with proliferation and apoptosis have provided the rationale for the use of antiangiogenic drugs, such as thalidomide and its analogue CC5013, with hematologic improvement. Although the results are modest, other drugs with somewhat novel antiangiogenic mechanisms of action are under development, such as the vascular endothelial growth factor-receptor blocker SU5416, the antivascular endothelial growth factor antibody bevacizumab, arsenic trioxide, metalloproteinase inhibitors, such as AG3340, and farnesyl transferase inhibitor R115777. This review attempts to provide an overview of the evidence of increased angiogenesis and the status of drug development targeting angiogenesis in patients with MDS.
OBJECTIVE: The objectives of this study were to assess the influence of the different types of laser cordectomy on vocal outcome and highlight the relationship between some perceptive, acoustic, and endoscopic evaluations. STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective observational study. METHODS: Thirteen patients, staged as having T1a tumor, underwent laser CO(2)cordectomy (1 patient type I and type II, 2 patients type II, 6 patients type III, and 4 patients type IV) between January and June 2010. Grade, roughness, breathiness, asthenia, and strain evaluation scale; voice handicap index-10 questionnaire; multidimensional computer analysis of voice and speech; maximum phonation time; and stroboscopic examination were performed 12 months after the surgery. Correlations between jitter% and R, shimmer% and R, noise-to-harmonic ratio (NHR) and G were studied. Patients were first divided into groups according to type of cordectomy performed and, later, according to stroboscopic findings. Wilcoxon test, Spearman index, and Kruskal-Wallis test, followed by post hoc analysis, were used. RESULTS: No significant differences were found in type III and type IV cordectomy groups. Jitter% and R values showed a correlation as did shimmer% and B values, and NHR and G values in type III cordectomy group. Moreover, shimmer% and NHR values significantly increase in direct proportion to the severity of the endoscopic status. CONCLUSIONS: Results indicate that the type of surgery performed, functional compensation, and outcome measures were related, although for some data, there were no statistical evidence. Individual compliance could strongly influence vocal outcome in these patients.
The C57Bl/6 mouse is the preferred host for the maintenance of gene deletion mutants and holds a unique place in investigations of cytokine/chemokine networks in neuroinflammation. It is also susceptible to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a multiple sclerosis (MS)-like disease commonly used to assess potential MS therapies. Investigations of glial reactivity in EAE have revealed hitherto undescribed astroglial responses in this model, characterized by progressively diminishing glial fibrillary acidic protein and aquaporin-4 immunostaining, from early disease. These observations show that astrocyte responses vary with the EAE paradigm and are an important pathological criterion for disease mapping and therapy evaluation.
The World Health Organization (WHO) classification of myeloid leukaemia was revised in 2008. It incorporates newly recognized entities and emphasizes the pivotal role of cytogenetic abnormalities. The aim of this study was to evaluate the usability of the WHO classification when applied to a large population-based paediatric acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) cohort. We included children diagnosed with de novo AML, 0-18 years of age from the Nordic countries and Hong Kong from 1993 to 2012. Data were retrieved from the Nordic Society for Paediatric Haematology and Oncology AML database and patients classified according to the WHO 2008 classification. A successful karyotype was available in 97% of the cases. AML with recurrent genetic abnormalities were present in 262 (41%) and 94 (15%) were classified as AML with myelodysplasia-related changes (AML-MDS). WHO classifies patients with monosomy 7 and del(7q) into one group. We found that -7 (n = 14) had significantly poorer outcome than del(7q) (n = 11); 5-year event-free survival 26% vs. 67%, (P = 0.02), and 5-year overall survival 51% vs. 90%, (P = 0.04). The largest group was the highly heterogeneous AML not otherwise specified (NOS) (n = 280) (44%). In conclusion, the WHO classification allocated 15% to AML-MDS, 44% to NOS and grouped together entities with clearly different outcome, therefore limiting the applicability of the current WHO classification in children with AML.
The development of amyloid-specific fluorophores allows the visualization of cerebral beta-amyloid deposits using optical imaging technology. In the present study, a series of smart styrylpyran fluorophores with compact donor-acceptor architecture were designed and evaluated for noninvasive detection of cerebral beta-amyloid deposits. Spectral behavior of the fluorophores changed significantly (optical turn-on) upon binding to beta-amyloid aggregates. Computational studies were conducted to correlate the experimental Kd values with calculated binding energies, speculating the relationship between fluorophore structure and beta-amyloid affinity. In vivo studies demonstrated that PAD-2 could discriminate APP/PS1 transgenic mice from wild type controls, with specific labeling of cerebral beta-amyloid deposits confirmed by ex vivo observation. Collectively, these styrylpyran fluorophores could provide a new scaffold for the development of optical imaging probes targeting cerebral beta-amyloid deposits.
Biosynthesis of all-cis-9,12,15-octadecatrien-6-ynoic acid in the moss, Ceratodon purpureus, was studied using protonemata cultures with labeled 9,12,15-octadecatrienoic (linolenic) and 6,9,12,15-octadecatetraenoic acids as substrates. Both acids were efficiently converted into the acetylenic and into 5,8,11,14,17-eicosapentaenoic acids. Accordingly, the introduction of a triple bond in position 6 of linolenic acid involves formation of a double bond as a discrete step. Acetylenic acid triglycerides are reserve lipids in the moss. Under suitable growth conditions the acetylenic acids are catabolized and partly reused via acetate for de novo synthesis of fatty acids. They are not used for more direct syntheses of the common polyunsaturated fatty acids.
It is still unclear whether phonological processing deficits are the underlying cause of developmental dyslexia, or rather a consequence of basic auditory processing impairments. To avoid methodological confounds, in the current study the same task and stimuli of comparable complexity were used to investigate both phonological and basic auditory (temporal and spectral) processing in dyslexia. German dyslexic children (Grades 3 and 4) were compared to age- and grade-matched controls in a vowel length discrimination task with three experimental conditions: In a phonological condition, natural vowels were used, differing both with respect to temporal and spectral information (in German, vowel length is phonemic, and vowel length differences are characterized by both temporal and spectral information). In a temporal condition, spectral information differentiating between the two vowels of a pair was eliminated, whereas in a spectral condition, temporal differences were removed. As performance measure, the sensitivity index d' was computed. At the group level, dyslexic children's performance was inferior to that of controls for phonological as well as temporal and spectral vowel length discrimination. At an individual level, nearly half of the dyslexic sample was characterized by deficits in all three conditions, but there were also some children showing no deficits at all. These results reveal on the one hand that phonological processing deficits in dyslexia may stem from impairments in processing temporal and spectral information in the speech signal. On the other hand they indicate, however, that not all dyslexic children might be characterized by phonological or auditory processing deficits.
Experiments with 148 isolates of vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) were performed to assess their potential to persist and grow in fermented sausages and pasteurised meat products. All strains were meat isolates and Van-type A, except a single VanC1 strain. In total, 143 strains of Enterococcus faecium were involved. Eight selected strains were examined for their potential to grow at high salt and nitrite levels and at reduced pH. The same isolates were used in experiments with fermented sausages. All available strains were subjected to heating tests in meat suspensions with added curing ingredients. All but one of the eight tested isolates grew at pH 4.0 in tryptone soya broth (TSB). With the combination of 8% w/w NaCl, 400 ppm NaNO2 and 0.5% w/w glucose in the meat suspension, all isolates grew at 37 degrees C, whereas none grew at 7 degrees C even after 56 days. With the addition of 10% w/w NaCl, 200 ppm NaNO2 and 0.5% w/w glucose, still one E. faecium isolate grew at 37 degrees C, although very slowly. Overall, the strains tolerated high salt and nitrite concentrations and reduced pH very well, even beyond levels applied in the regular production of fermented and/or pasteurised meat products. The tested strains could be isolated after the fermentation and further ripening of "boerenmetworst" and "snijworst". Overall, their colony counts decreased on average about 1 log-unit over a period of 60 days after batter manufacture. All 148 isolates demonstrated a relatively weak thermal resistance compared to results for selected vancomycin-sensitive enterococci strains reported in the literature and to results collected under identical experimental conditions in this laboratory. None of the strains (log inoculation level about 5-6 ml(-1) for each isolate) could be cultured after heating at 70 degrees C for 10 min.
A series of catalysts constituted by nanoparticles of transition metal (M = Fe, Co, Ni and Mo) phosphides (TMP) dispersed on SBA-15 were synthesized by reduction of the corresponding metal phosphate precursors previously impregnated on the mesostructured support. All the samples contained a metal-loading of 20 wt% and with an initial M/P mole ratio of 1, and they were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), N2 sorption, H2-TPR and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Metal phosphide nanocatalysts were tested in a high pressure continuous flow reactor for the hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of a methyl ester blend containing methyl oleate (C17H33-COO-CH3) as main component (70%). This mixture constitutes a convenient surrogate of triglycerides present in vegetable oils, and following catalytic hydrotreating yields mainly n-alkanes. The results of the catalytic assays indicate that Ni2P/SBA-15 catalyst presents the highest ester conversion, whereas the transformation rate is about 20% lower for MoP/SBA-15. In contrast, catalysts based on Fe and Co phosphides show a rather limited activity. Hydrocarbon distribution in the liquid product suggests that both hydrodeoxygenation and decarboxylation/decarbonylation reactions occur simultaneously over the different catalysts, although MoP/SBA-15 possess a selectivity towards hydrodeoxygenation exceeding 90%. Accordingly, the catalyst based on MoP affords the highest yield of n-octadecane, which is the preferred product in terms of carbon atom economy. Subsequently, in order to conjugate the advantages of both Ni and Mo phosphides, a series of catalysts containing variable proportions of both metals were prepared. The obtained results reveal that the mixed phosphides catalysts present a catalytic behavior intermediate between those of the monometallic phosphides. Accordingly, only marginal enhancement of the yield of n-octadecane is obtained for the catalysts with a Mo/Ni ratio of 3. Nevertheless, owing to this high selectivity for hydrodeoxygenation MoP/SBA-15 appears as a very promising catalyst for the production of advanced biofuels.
The spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of late onset neurodegenerative disorders. To date, seven different genes causing autosomal dominant SCA have been mapped: SCA1, SCA2, Machado-Joseph disease (MJD)SCA3, SCA4, SCA5, SCA7 and dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). Expansions of an unstable trinucleotide CAG repeat cause three of these disorders: SCA1, MJD/SCA3 and DRPLA. We studied one Brazilian family segregating an autosomal dominant type of SCA. A total of ten individuals were examined and tested for the presence of the SCA1, MJD and DRPLA mutations. Three individuals, one male, and two females, were considered affected based on neurological examination; ages at onset were 32, 36 and 41 years. The first complaint in all three patients was gait ataxia which progressed slowly over the years. Six individuals showed one allele containing an expanded CAG repeat in the SCA1 gene. The mean size of the expanded allele was 48.2 CAG units. Instability of the expanded CAG tract was seen in the two transmissions that were observed in this family. In both occasions there was a contraction of the CAG tract. Our study demonstrates that SCA1 occurs in the Brazilian population. In addition, our results stress the importance of molecular studies in the confirmation of diagnosis and for pre-symptomatic testing in SCAs.
BACKGROUND: Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is the most common mesenchymal tumor of the gastrointestinal tract. Clinical behavior is best predicted by size and mitotic count (risk index). KIT and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) mutations have therapeutic and prognostic value but few other prognostically significant molecular markers have been identified. We investigated the prognostic value of p53 protein expression and MDM2 gene amplification in a series of GISTs. METHODS: Thirty-five GISTs were tested for KIT and PDGFRA mutations, p53 protein expression (high >10% positive by immunohistochemistry) and MDM2 gene amplification (ratio >1.8). Mitotic index (>5/50 HPF), MDM2 amplification status, p53 protein expression, tumor size, and KIT/PDGFRA mutational status were correlated with clinical outcome. RESULTS: Only a single (3%) GIST was amplified for MDM2. p53 protein expression, mitotic index, and KIT/PDGFRA mutations did not correlate with recurrence or metastasis (P=0.20, 0.50, and 0.08, respectively) but tumor size did (P=0.04). Risk assessment (size and mitotic index) showed a weak association with clinical behavior (P=0.19). CONCLUSIONS: MDM2 amplification is uncommon in GISTs. Although high p53 expression occurred in 35% of cases, it did not correlate with clinical behavior. Only GIST size predicted clinical outcome.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the reasons for inappropriate patient stay (IPS) and to identify possible predictors of this inappropriate stay. DESIGN: The reasons for IPS were analyzed in a cross-sectional survey at two surgical one gynecologic and one obstetric ward, using a sample of 610 days of hospital stay by means of the Dutch Appropriateness Evaluation Protocol. SETTING: The study was conducted at the University Hospital Maastricht, a 715-bed hospital with a regional and teaching function, located in the southern part of The Netherlands. RESULTS: Results indicate that > 20% of the hospital stay was inappropriate. The reasons for IPS were statistically significantly related to the patients' age, the availability of home care and medical specialty. In a predictive model, only the specialty proved to be a predictor of IPS. Most of the IPS occurred during the first days of hospital stay and the days before the patient's discharge. CONCLUSION: A substantial proportion of hospital stay was found to be inappropriate, due to hospital procedures and the inability to refer patients to other care facilities or care providers. Analysis of the causes of IPS provided useful data for improvement actions. Efficient use of hospital resources should be promoted by reducing the delay in interventions and discharge procedures.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanism of altered retinoic acid receptor beta (RARbeta) expression during esophageal squamous carcinogenesis. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Samples were collected from Linzhou, China. The hypermethylation of CpG islands in the promoter region of the RARbeta gene was examined by methylation-specific PCR in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) samples, as well as in neighboring tissues with normal epithelium, basal cell hyperplasia, and dysplasia. RARbeta mRNA expression was determined by in situ hybridization. The DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 2'-deoxy-5-azacytidine was used to treat the ESCC cell line, and the DNA hypermethylation status and mRNA expression level were examined. RESULTS: Two of 17 (12%) normal, 9 of 21 basal cell hyperplasia (43%), 7 of 12 dysplasia (58%), and 14 of 20 ESCC (70%) samples had hypermethylation of the RARbeta promoter region. The loss of RARbeta mRNA expression was highly concordant with RARbeta promoter CpG island hypermethylation when individual samples were considered in the correlation analysis. Good statistical correlation between hypermethylation and loss of RARbeta expression was revealed. Frequencies of hypermethylation appeared to increase with the progression of carcinogenesis. In samples from the same patients, if hypermethylation was detected in earlier lesions, it was usually observed in more severe lesions. In the ESCC cell line KYSE 510, 2'-deoxy-5-azacytidine partially reversed CpG island hypermethylation and restored RARbeta mRNA expression. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that hypermethylation of RARbeta promoter region is an important mechanism for RARbeta gene silencing in esophageal squamous carcinogenesis.
The cortical (auditory and prefrontal) and/or subcortical (thalamic and hippocampal) generators of abnormal electrophysiological responses during sensory gating remain actively debated in the schizophrenia literature. Functional magnetic resonance imaging has the spatial resolution for disambiguating deep or simultaneous sources but has been relatively under-utilized to investigate generators of the gating response. Thirty patients with chronic schizophrenia (SP) and 30 matched controls participated in the current experiment. Hemodynamic response functions (HRFs) for single (S1) and pairs (S1 + S2) of identical ("gating-out" redundant information) or nonidentical ("gating-in" novel information) tones were generated through deconvolution. Increased or prolonged activation for patients in conjunction with deactivation for controls was observed within auditory cortex, prefrontal cortex, and thalamus in response to single tones during the late hemodynamic response, and these group differences were not associated with clinical or cognitive symptomatology. Although patient hyperactivation to paired-tones conditions was present in several regions of interest, the effects were not statistically significant for either the gating-out or gating-in conditions. Finally, abnormalities in the postundershoot of the auditory HRF were also observed for both single and paired-tones conditions in patients. In conclusion, the amalgamation of the entire electrophysiological response to both S1 and S2 stimuli may limit hemodynamic sensitivity to paired tones during sensory gating, which may be more readily overcome by paradigms that use multiple stimuli rather than pairs. Patient hyperactivation following single tones is suggestive of deficits in basic inhibition, neurovascular abnormalities, or a combination of both factors.
The progress in the knowledge of neurometabolic diseases is due to the conjunction of innovations in several scientific and technological areas. Our review is focused in the biochemical aspects that we consider should be added systematically in the study of these diseases. 1. Analysis of sialotransferrin isoforms; 2. Analysis of specific acylcarnitines, and 3. Study of purine, pyrimidine and neurotransmitter metabolism.
According to the conservative sequence in the epitaxial variable region of Thailand strain of WSSV published in GenBank,a pair of primers were designed to amplify the variable region genes of 5 local WSSV strains (ZHSH, ZHJ, HN, QD1, QD2) by PCR and then cloned. In accordance with the CN, the results indicated that the number of nucleotide of 5 strains were deleted more than 591bp of the TW and TH strains. The ZHSH and HN strains that deleted 591bp at the 3' end, and 454 bp at the 5' end of variable gene was highly homologous with CN strain about 99.3%. 229bp of ZHJ strain at the 5' end was homologous with CN about 99.3%, and deleted of 816bp at the 3' end. 97bp at the 5' end and 171bp at the 3' end of QD1 and QD2 strains were homologous with CN strain about 99.3%, and about 777bp were absent in the middle. The above data showed that the variable region genes of WSSV had mutated more in China. The variable region gene of QD2 strain was coincidence with that of QD1 after propagating 10 generations in crayfish. The results indicated that the crayfish inoculation did not result in mutation of variable region genes of WSSV.
INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this investigation is to determine if CT perfusion (CTP) measurements at low doses (LD = 20 or 50 mAs) are similar to those obtained at regular doses (RD = 100 mAs), with and without the addition of adaptive statistical iterative reconstruction (ASIR). METHODS: A single-center, prospective study was performed in patients with acute ischemic stroke (n = 37; 54% male; age = 74 +/- 15 years). Two CTP scans were performed on each subject: one at 100 mAs (RD) and one at either 50 or 20 mAs (LD). CTP parameters were compared between the RD and LD scans in regions of ischemia, infarction, and normal tissue. Differences were determined using a within-subjects ANOVA (p < 0.05) followed by a paired t test post hoc analysis (p < 0.01). RESULTS: At 50 mAs, there was no significant difference between cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), or time to maximum enhancement (Tmax) values for the RD and LD scans in the ischemic, infarcted, or normal contralateral regions (p < 0.05). At 20 mAs, there were significant differences between the RD and LD scans for all parameters in the ischemic and normal tissue regions (p > 0.05). CONCLUSION: CTP-derived CBF and CBV are not different at 50 mAs compared to 100 mAs, even without the addition of ASIR. Current CTP protocols can be modified to reduce the effective dose by 50 % without altering CTP measurements.
Glutamate receptor activated neuronal cell death has been implicated in the pathogenesis of motor neuron disease but the molecular mechanism responsible for neuronal dysfunction needs to be elucidated. In the present study, we examined the contribution of NMDA and non-NMDA sub-types of glutamate receptors in selective vulnerability of motor neurons. Glutamate receptor activated Ca2+ signaling, mitochondrial functions and neurotoxicity in motor neurons and other spinal neurons were studied in mixed spinal cord primary cultures. Exposure of cells to glutamate receptor agonists glutamate, NMDA and AMPA elevated the intracellular Ca2+, mitochondrial Ca2+ and caused mitochondrial depolarization and cytotoxicity in both motor neurons and other spinal neurons but a striking difference was observed in the magnitude and temporal patterns of the [Ca2+]i responses between the two neuronal cell types. The motor neurons elicited higher Ca2+ load than the other spinal neurons and the [Ca2+]i levels were elevated for a longer duration in motor neurons. AMPA receptor stimulation was more effective than NMDA. Both the NMDA and non-NMDA receptor antagonists APV and NBQX inhibited the Ca2+ entry and decreased the cell death significantly; however, NBQX was more potent than APV. Our results demonstrate that both NMDA and non-NMDA sub-types of glutamate receptors contribute to glutamate-mediated motor neuron damage but AMPA receptors play the major role. AMPA receptor-mediated excessive Ca2+ load and differential handling/regulation of Ca2+ buffering by mitochondria in motor neurons could be central in their selective vulnerability to excitotoxicity.
BACKGROUND: Despite receiving post-operative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy, approximately 50% of patients with stage IIIC colon cancer experience recurrence. Currently, no molecular signature can predict response to 5-FU. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mouse models of colon cancer have been developed and characterized. Individual tumors in these mice can be longitudinally monitored and assessed to identify differences between those that are responsive and those that are resistant to therapy. Gene expression was analyzed in serial biopsies that were collected before and after treatment with 5-FU. Colon tumors had heterogeneous responses to treatment with 5-FU. Microarray analysis of pre-treatment biopsies revealed that Hp1bp3, a gene encoding heterochromatin protein 1 binding protein 3, was differentially expressed between sensitive and resistant tumors. CONCLUSION: Using mouse models of human colorectal cancer, Hp1bp3 was identified as a candidate marker of intrinsic 5-FU resistance and may represent a potential biomarker for patient stratification or a target of clinical importance.
PURPOSE: To develop a model for experimental Streptococcus pneumoniae keratitis and to evaluate the chemotherapeutic efficacy of 12 common topical antibiotics in vivo. METHODS: Five-hundred (CFUs of log-phase S. pneumoniae were injected into the central corneal stroma of 36 eyes of 18 rabbits. After 0, 4, 8, 16, 24, and 48 hours, the in vivo growth was assayed as the CFU per cornea. Epithelial removal (to promote antibiotic entry and mimic human keratitis) was evaluated. Disc or tube dilution verification of the sensitivity or resistance of three S. pneumoniae strains was performed: a penicillin sensitive ("S"), an intermediate sensitive ("I"), and a resistant ("R") strain. Keratitis was established with S. pneumoniae "S" in 65 eyes, S. pneumoniae "I" in 107 eyes, and S. pneumoniae "R" in 78 eyes. Sixteen hours later, control corneas were harvested and the epithelium removed from treatment corneas. Every half hour saline, penicillin, gentamicin, bacitracin, ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, erythromycin, vancomycin, ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, or chloramphenicol was applied for 5 hours. One hour later CFUs/cornea were assayed. RESULTS: After 24 hours, S. pneumoniae "S" and "I" had proliferated to 9.18+/-6.65 x 10(6) CFUs and 9.26+/-6.90 x 10(6) CFUs. Epithelial removal at 16 hours was not significant. The in vitro antibiotic sensitivity was as expected. However, in vivo, penicillin, gentamicin, or cefazolin sterilized S. pneumoniae "S." S. pneumoniae "R" responded best to fortified gentamicin with or without vancomycin; all others antibiotics were significantly less effective (P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: A small intracorneal S. pneumoniae inoculum in rabbit corneas grew and was maintained for 24 hours (with epithelial removal) to provide a model for testing antibiotic sensitivity in vivo. Topical penicillin is best for treating keratitis from penicillin-sensitive S. pneumoniae, whereas topical gentamicin or a combination of gentamicin and vancomycin was most effective against penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae.
The unique capabilities of EPR spin trapping of nitric oxide based on a ferrous-dithiocarbamate spin trap have been demonstrated in a study verifying the source of the nitrogen and oxygen atoms in nitric oxide produced from activated macrophages. Spin trapping experiments were performed during nitric oxide generation from activated mouse peritoneal macrophages using the ferrous complex of N-methyl D-glucamine dithiocarbamate as a spin trap. When 15N-substituted arginine was given to the activated macrophages in the presence of the spin trap, a characteristic EPR spectrum of the nitric oxide spin adduct was obtained, which indicates the presence of the 15N atom in the nitric oxide molecule. The hyperfine splitting (hfs) constant of the 15N nucleus was 17.6 gauss. When 17O-containing dioxygen (55%) was supplied to the medium, an EPR spectrum consistent with the 17O-substituted nitric oxide spin adduct was observed in the composite spectrum. The hfs of 17O was estimated to be 2.5 gauss. The 14NO spin adduct observed after prolonged incubation in the medium which contains [15N]L-arginine as the only extracellular source of arginine demonstrates that arginine is recycled through its metabolite in activated macrophages.
AIMS: A prothrombotic state characterized by activation of the coagulation system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of vascular complications in diabetes mellitus. Recently, a thrombin generation assay was introduced as a laboratory assessment of global hemostatic potential. We used this thrombin generation assay to investigate global hemostatic potential in patients with diabetes who did not have macrovascular complications. METHODS: This study was a prospective case-control study comparing 89 patients with diabetes with 49 healthy controls. The thrombin generation assay was conducted with the calibrated automated thrombogram using tissue factor with or without the addition of thrombomodulin, giving values for lag time, endogenous thrombin potential, and peak thrombin. RESULTS: Patients with diabetes showed hypercoagulability, as detected by the thrombin generation assay, compared with healthy controls. Correspondingly, high levels of coagulation factors (II, V, VII, VIII, and X) and low levels of anticoagulant (protein C) were major contributing factors in this hypercoagulability. Interestingly, a high blood glucose level was correlated with shortened clotting time, reflecting the association between hyperglycemia and hypercoagulability. Patients who were taking statins or angiotensin receptor blockers showed decreased endogenous thrombin potential ratio and increased protein C levels, suggesting relative hypocoagulability. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with diabetes showed hypercoagulability, high levels of coagulation factors, and low levels of protein C. Further study is required to investigate how this hemostatic potential may be used to guide physicians toward more effective management of hemostatic complications.
BACKGROUND: Pyrosequencing technology has the potential to rapidly sequence HIV-1 viral quasispecies without requiring the traditional approach of cloning. In this study, we investigated the utility of ultra-deep pyrosequencing to characterize genetic diversity of the HIV-1 gag quasispecies and assessed the possible contribution of pyrosequencing technology in studying HIV-1 biology and evolution. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: HIV-1 gag gene was amplified from 96 patients using nested PCR. The PCR products were cloned and sequenced using capillary based Sanger fluorescent dideoxy termination sequencing. The same PCR products were also directly sequenced using the 454 pyrosequencing technology. The two sequencing methods were evaluated for their ability to characterize quasispecies variation, and to reveal sites under host immune pressure for their putative functional significance. A total of 14,034 variations were identified by 454 pyrosequencing versus 3,632 variations by Sanger clone-based (SCB) sequencing. 11,050 of these variations were detected only by pyrosequencing. These undetected variations were located in the HIV-1 Gag region which is known to contain putative cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) and neutralizing antibody epitopes, and sites related to virus assembly and packaging. Analysis of the positively selected sites derived by the two sequencing methods identified several differences. All of them were located within the CTL epitope regions. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Ultra-deep pyrosequencing has proven to be a powerful tool for characterization of HIV-1 genetic diversity with enhanced sensitivity, efficiency, and accuracy. It also improved reliability of downstream evolutionary and functional analysis of HIV-1 quasispecies.
Ca(2+) is well known for its role as crucial second messenger in modulating many cellular physiological functions, Ca(2+) overload is detrimental to cellular function and may present as an important cause of cellular oxidative stress generation and apoptosis. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of selenium on lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), cytosolic Ca(2+) release, cell viability (MTT) and apoptosis values in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons of rats. DRG cells were divided into four groups namely control, H(2)O(2) (as a model substance used as a paradigm for oxidative stress), selenium, selenium + H(2)O(2). Moderate doses and times of H(2)O(2) and selenium were determined by MTT test. Cells were preterated 200 nM selenium for 30 h before incubatation with 1 muM H(2)O(2) for 2 h. Lipid peroxidation levels were lower in the control, selenium, selenium + H(2)O(2) groups than in the H(2)O(2) group. GSH-Px activities were higher in the selenium groups than in the H(2)O(2) group. GSH levels were higher in the control, selenium, selenium + H(2)O(2) groups than in the H(2)O(2) group. Cytosolic Ca(2+) release was higher in the H(2)O(2) group than in the control, selenium, selenium + H(2)O(2) groups. Cytosolic Ca(2+) release was lower in the selenium + H(2)O(2) group than in the H(2)O(2). In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that selenium induced protective effects on oxidative stress, [Ca(2+)](c) release and apoptosis in DRG cells. Since selenium deficiency is a common feature of oxidative stress-induced neurological diseases of sensory neurons, our findings are relevant to the etiology of pathology in oxidative stress-induced neurological diseases of the DRG neurons.
Although numerous studies have discussed serotoninergic pathways projecting from the brainstem to the spinal cord, the intraspinal course of these descending axons remains a matter of debate. One of the difficulties with traditional immunohistochemical methods is that the interpretation of results has been subjective. We have therefore employed a computer-assisted image-processing system to provide objective measurements of serotonin immuno-reactivity within the rodent dorsal horn and lamina X caudal to unilateral thoracic cordotomy in order to establish the intraspinal course of descending serotoninergic fibers. Lesion analysis combined with computer-determined optical density measurements, high-power microscopic examination, and camera lucida drawings demonstrated that the predominant serotoninergic pathway terminating within the dorsal horn courses unilaterally within the dorsal portion of the dorsolateral funiculus. The thoracic dorsal horn may receive a slightly greater contribution from the contralateral side than the lumbar dorsal horn. Lamina X receives serotoninergic innervation both from fibers descending within the ipsilateral dorsolateral funiculus and from more ventrally located ipsilateral pathways, and it also contains serotonin derived from other sources.
A new murine tester stock for primary nondisjunction incorporates three genetically marked Robertsonian translocations with tribrachial homology (TBH): Rb(6.15)1Ald, Rb(4.6)2Bnr, and Rb(4.15)4Rma. The resultant tricentromeric meiotic configuration leads to 100% aneuploid gametes, but the TBH stock can be maintained by intercrossing, through the complementation of nullisomic and disomic gametes. The only neonatal survivors from tescrosses to wild type come from complementation of aneuploid gametes and genetic tests allow wild type gains or losses of Chromosomes 4, 6, and 15 to be distinguished. Alternatively, cytogenetic examination allows products of wild type chromosome gain, with one metacentric, to be separated from chromosome loss with two metacentrics. A pilot study, with 0-2 Gy X-irradiation of oocytes at diakinesis, revealed twelve examples of chromosome loss in wild type gametes but none of chromosome gain and thus provided no evidence for the induction of nondisjunction.
Mycobacterium smegmatis acquires extracellular iron using exochelin, mycobactin and carboxymycobactin. The latter two siderophores are synthesized from salicylic acid, which, in turn, is derived from chorismic acid in the shikimic acid pathway. To understand the conversion mechanism of chorismic acid to salicylic acid in M. smegmatis, knockout mutants of the putative key genes, trpE2, entC and entD, were created by targeted mutagenesis. By enzymatic assays with the cell-free extracts of the various knockout mutants, we have shown that TrpE2 converts chorismic acid into isochorismic acid and is thus an isochorismate synthase. The gene products of both entC and entD are involved in the conversion of isochorismic acid into salicylic acid, and hence correspond to salicylate synthase.
Molecularly imprinted PHEMAH cryogels were synthesized and used for purification of carbonic anhydrase from bovine erythrocyte. Cryogels were prepared with free radical cryopolymerization of 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate and methacryloylamido histidine and characterized by swelling degree, macroporosity, FTIR, SEM, surface area and elemental analysis. Maximum carbonic anhydrase adsorption of molecularly imprinted PHEMAH cryogel was found to be 3.16 mg/g. Selectivity of the molecularly imprinted cryogel was investigated using albumin, hemoglobin, IgG, gamma-globulin, and lysozyme as competitor proteins and selectivity ratios were found to be 15.26, 60.05, 21.88, 17.61, and 17.42, respectively. Carbonic anhydrase purity was demonstrated by SDS-PAGE and zymogram results.
Infection with bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV1) or BPV2 induces fibropapillomas in cows and skin sarcoids in horses. Prophylactic vaccination targeting BPV1 and BPV2 may reduce the incidence of these economically important diseases. The L1 major capsid proteins of BPV1 and BPV2 were expressed in Sf-9 insect cells and both self-assembled into virus-like particles (VLPs). Using conformation-dependent monoclonal antibodies (mAb) both type-specific and shared epitopes were detected. Antisera were raised against BPV1 or BPV2 VLP using alum adjuvant, and their (cross)neutralization capacity was tested by C127 neutralization assays using native BPV1 and BPV2 virions, or by BPV1 pseudovirion assay. Antisera induced by either VLP vaccine were able to robustly (cross-)neutralize heterologous as well as homologous types, indicating that BPV1 and BPV2 are closely related serotypes. These results suggest that a monovalent BPV1 (or BPV2) VLP vaccine may potentially protect against both BPV1 and BPV2 infections and associated diseases.
OBJECTIVES: Galectin-3 has been shown to be involved in the process of cardiac fibrosis and to predict adverse events in heart failure (HF), but the association of galectin-3 with cause-specific death has not been well established. The purpose of this study was to investigate the prognostic value of baseline galectin-3 for all-cause, cardiovascular (CV), and in-hospital death in patients with HF. METHODS AND RESULTS: From March 2009 to April 2013, we consecutively measured galectin-3 in a large cohort of 1,440 hospitalized patients with HF. Cox proportional hazards regression, discrimination, and reclassification analyses were used to evaluate the association between galectin-3 and death. During a median follow-up of 582 days, 283 deaths were identified, of which 64 were patients who died during hospitalization. Compared with the lowest galectin-3 tertile, the highest 2 tertiles were significantly associated with all-cause, CV, and progressive HF death, but not significant for sudden and in-hospital death when analyzed by multivariable Cox regression. The utility of combining galectin-3 and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide was assessed by dichotomizing these 2 biomarkers according to their median values. The highest risk of death due to all-cause, CV, and progressive HF was observed when both biomarkers were elevated after adjustment for established risk factors. Addition of galectin-3 to the prediction model for all-cause and CV death significantly improved discrimination and reclassification. CONCLUSIONS: Galectin-3 independently predicted death and added additional prognostic value beyond established risk factors in hospitalized patients with HF. The utility of galectin-3 alone as a risk predictor was not strong enough to assess sudden or in-hospital death.
The inverted repeat domain (IR domain) within the simian virus 40 origin of replication is the site of initial DNA melting prior to the onset of DNA synthesis. The domain had previously been shown to be bound by a cellular factor in response to DNA damage. We demonstrate that two distinct cellular components bind opposite strands of the IR domain. Replication protein A (RPA), previously identified as a single-stranded DNA binding protein required for origin-specific DNA replication in vitro, is shown to have a preference for the pyrimidine-rich strand. A newly described component, IR factor B (IRF-B), specifically recognizes the opposite strand. IRF-B binding activity in nuclear extract varies significantly with cell proliferation and the cell cycle, so that binding of IRF-B to the IR domain is negatively correlated with the onset of DNA synthesis. Loss of IRF-B binding from the nucleus also occurs in response to cellular DNA damage. UV cross-linking indicates that the core binding component of IRF-B is a protein of ca. 34 kDa. We propose that RPA and IRF-B bind opposite strands of the IR domain and together may function in the regulation of origin activation.
STUDY DESIGN: An in vitro biomechanical study using a simulated cervical corpectomy model to compare the load-sharing properties and stiffnesses of two static and two dynamic cervical plates. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the load-sharing properties of the instrumentation with a full-length graft and with 10% graft subsidence and to measure the stiffness of the instrumentation systems about the axes of flexion-extension, lateral bending, and axial torsion under these same conditions. SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: No published reports comparing conventional and dynamic cervical plates exist. METHODS: Six specimens of each of the four plate types were mounted on ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene-simulated vertebral bodies. A custom four-axis spine simulator applied pure flexion-extension, lateral bending, and axial torsion moments under a constant 50 N axial compressive load. Load sharing was calculated through a range of applied axial loads up to 120 N. The stiffness of each construct was calculated in response to +/-2.5 Nm moments about each axis of rotation with a full-length graft, a 10% shortened graft, and no graft. ANOVA and Fisher's post hoc test were used to determine statistical significance (alpha < or = 0.05). RESULTS: The two locked cervical plates (CSLP and Orion) and the ABC dynamic plate were similar in flexion-extension, lateral bending, and torsional stiffness. The DOC dynamic plate was consistently less stiff. The Orion plate load shared significantly less than the other three plates with a full graft. Both the ABC and the DOC plates were able to load share with a shortened graft, whereas the conventional plates were not. CONCLUSIONS: All plates tested effectively load share with a full-length graft, whereas the two dynamic cervical plates tested load share more effectively than the locked plates with simulated graft subsidence. The effect of dynamization on stiffness is dependent on plate design.
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to characterize the expression of CD200, a membrane protein that functions in immune evasion, to examine its correlations with cancer stem cell (CSC)-like features and analyze its response to chemotherapy and radiation in human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive (+) and negative (-) head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs). METHODS: CD200 expression was analyzed in several HNSCC cell lines. CD200 was overexpressed in HPV(+) murine tonsil epithelial cells, its effects on Shh and Bmi-1 were examined in vitro, and tumor growth and response to chemoradiation were analyzed in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: CD200 was diversely expressed and consistently associated with expression of Bmi-1 and Shh. Overexpression of CD200 induced Bmi-1 and Shh. Tumors grew similarly between C57BL/6 and Rag1(-/-) C57BL/6 mice. CD200 expression enhanced the resistance to chemoradiation only in vivo. CONCLUSION: CD200 was related to CSC features and modulates response to chemoradiation in vivo. Attenuating this might be a potential therapeutic strategy.
In 2007, a human Q fever epidemic started, mainly in the south eastern part of The Netherlands with a suspected indirect relation to dairy goats, and, to a lesser degree, to dairy sheep. This article describes the Q fever prevalences in Dutch dairy goat and dairy sheep bulk tank milk (BTM) samples, using a real-time (RT) PCR and ELISA. Results of BTM PCR and ELISA were compared with the serological status of individual animals, and correlations with a history of Q fever abortion were determined. When compared with ELISA results, the optimal cut-off value for the RT-PCR was 100 bacteria/ml. In 2008, there were 392 farms with more than 200 dairy goats, of which 292 submitted a BTM sample. Of these samples, 96 (32.9 per cent) were PCR positive and 87 (29.8 per cent) were ELISA positive. All farms with a history of Q fever abortion (n=17) were ELISA positive, 16 out of 17 were also PCR positive. BTM PCR or ELISA positive farms had significantly higher within-herd seroprevalences than BTM negative farms. In the south eastern provinces, the area where the human Q fever outbreak started in 2007, a significantly larger proportion of the BTM samples was PCR and ELISA positive compared to the rest of The Netherlands. None of the BTM samples from dairy sheep farms (n=16) were PCR positive but three of these farms were ELISA positive. The higher percentage of BTM positive farms in the area where the human Q fever outbreak started, supports the suspected relation between human cases and infected dairy goat farms.
Recently, we reported the anti-inflammatory effects of arvelexin isolated from Brassica rapa in macrophages. In the present study, the effects of arvelexin were investigated in a dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis mouse model and in a cellular model. In the DSS-induced colitis model, arvelexin significantly reduced the severity of colitis, as assessed by disease activity, colonic damage, neutrophil infiltration, and levels of colonic iNOS. Moreover, arvelexin inhibited the expressions of IL-8, IP-10, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1 in HT-29 colonic epithelial cells. Arvelexin also inhibited the TNF-alpha-induced adhesion of U937 monocytic cells to HT-29 cells. Furthermore, arvelexin reduced p65 NF-kappaB subunit translocation to the nucleus and IkappaBalpha degradation in the colonic tissues and in TNF-alpha-induced HT-29 cells. These results demonstrate that the ameliorative effects of arvelexin on colonic injury are mainly related to its ability to inhibit the inflammatory responses via NF-kappaB inactivation, and support its possible therapeutic role in colitis.
PURPOSE: To develop a guideline to improve the accuracy of immunohistochemical (IHC) estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PgR) testing in breast cancer and the utility of these receptors as predictive markers. METHODS: The American Society of Clinical Oncology and the College of American Pathologists convened an international Expert Panel that conducted a systematic review and evaluation of the literature in partnership with Cancer Care Ontario and developed recommendations for optimal IHC ER/PgR testing performance. RESULTS: Up to 20% of current IHC determinations of ER and PgR testing worldwide may be inaccurate (false negative or false positive). Most of the issues with testing have occurred because of variation in preanalytic variables, thresholds for positivity, and interpretation criteria. RECOMMENDATIONS: The Panel recommends that ER and PgR status be determined on all invasive breast cancers and breast cancer recurrences. A testing algorithm that relies on accurate, reproducible assay performance is proposed. Elements to reliably reduce assay variation are specified. It is recommended that ER and PgR assays be considered positive if there are at least 1% positive tumor nuclei in the sample on testing in the presence of expected reactivity of internal (normal epithelial elements) and external controls. The absence of benefit from endocrine therapy for women with ER-negative invasive breast cancers has been confirmed in large overviews of randomized clinical trials.
Qualitative data analysis may be daunting to nursing graduate students and other novice qualitative researchers. This article describes a qualitative research project required in a graduate nursing research course that was desired to guide students through their first qualitative data analysis. Common pitfalls novice researchers may encounter, such as data shuffling, premature closure, and overly delayed closure, also are discussed. The project reported in this article not only decreased students' anxiety concerning qualitative data analysis but also helped students gain respect for the amount of time, effort, and creativity this process entails.
Incorporation of [35S]methionine into low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) receptors by normal fibroblasts and those from a homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemic (FH) subject who produced defective but immunoprecipitable receptor proteins of normal size, was compared with the ability of the cells to bind LDL and their content of LDL receptor protein determined using a double-antibody radioimmunoassay. The FH cells produced precursor protein with a longer half-life (3-4 h) than normal cells (40 min), most of which was eventually processed to a mature form of the receptor. Total receptor half-life was similar to normal (approx. 12 h) and LDL binding about 20% of normal. Incubation of normal fibroblasts with lipoprotein-deficient serum (LPDS) led to an increase in the amount of LDL receptor protein in the cells which was closely followed by the increase in their ability to bind LDL. Receptor synthesis increased rapidly at first, but then fell by more than 60% before remaining constant. The peak of synthesis coincided with the greatest rate of increase in receptor content. At equilibrium in LPDS receptor synthesis, LDL binding and receptor protein content were all approximately 3.3-fold higher than in cells maintained in 10% foetal calf serum (FCS). The FH cells also responded to LPDS with a rise and fall in the rate of receptor synthesis. They did not compensate for their inefficiency in producing active receptors with an increase in total receptor content. In LPDS, peak synthesis and maximum receptor content of the FH cells were similar to normal. In FCS receptor synthesis and content were well below maximum so that they did not fully employ even the low capacity for LDL uptake of which they were capable. With both types of cell, inhibition of mevalonic acid and cholesterol synthesis with compactin delayed, but did not prevent the secondary fall in the rate of receptor synthesis, again suggesting a regulatory role for some factor not directly related to cholesterol metabolism.
AIMS: Recently, oral form of paricalcitol has allowed extension of treatment to ambulatory patients on peritoneal dialysis but few data have been published about the benefits of paricalcitol in this subgroup. A multicenter, retrospective study was carried out to increase current knowledge on the effectiveness and safety of paricalcitol in 162 peritoneal dialyzed patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism. METHODS: Case histories of patients treated with paricalcitol for at least 6 months were reviewed to extract data on 12 biochemical parameters related to bone disease and health status. Changes in these parameters were described. Doses of paricalcitol and other concomitant treatments were evaluated at least every 3 months. RESULTS: 99 men (61.1%) and 63 women (38.9%) with an average age of 62.07 years were included. PTH levels showed an acute decrease in the three first months (35.88%) and a global decrease at month 6 of 42.39%. A slight increase in calcium was observed (p < 0.001) but it remained between normal range values. Only 5 patients presented serum calcium over 10.2 in two consecutive measurements. No changes were found in phosphorus, calcium-phosphorus product, hemoglobin, alkaline phosphatase, GGT, albumin, PCR inflammatory markers, pH and bicarbonate. The decrease in proteinuria levels was nearly statistically significant (p = 0.061). Only 6 patients (0.36%) abandoned the treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Paricalcitol therapy was well tolerated with a high effectiveness in patients on peritoneal dialysis. A slight increase in serum calcium levels was observed, although within normal ranges. No changes in other biochemical parameters related to bone disease could be associated to paricalcitol with data compiled in our study. Paricalcitol seems to have a protective effect on proteinuria levels.
A collection of 68 Hafnia strains previously identified to the species level by 16S rRNA gene sequencing were investigated for simple phenotypic properties that could aid in their recognition in the clinical laboratory. Four tests, including malonate utilization, fermentation of salicin and d-arabinose, and expression of beta-glucosidase activity, correctly assigned each strain to either Hafnia alvei or H. paralvei. Antibiotic susceptibility profiles were generated for 35 H. alvei and H. paralvei isolates using Etest strips for 24 antibiotics. All strains were susceptible to aminoglycosides, quinolones, carbapenems, and monobactams. Most of the Hafnia isolates had a colistin MIC of >/=2 mug/ml. Sequencing of an internal ampC gene fragment allowed genotypic differentiation of the two Hafnia species. Approximately 70% of the hafniae tested additionally produced a cytolytic toxin active on Vero cells which may play a role in gastroenteritis.
Hydrogen isotope ratios ((2) H/(1) H, delta(2) H) of leaf waxes covary with those in precipitation and are therefore a useful paleohydrologic proxy. Mangroves are an exception to this relationship because their delta(2) H values are also influenced by salinity. The mechanisms underlying this response were investigated by measuring leaf lipid delta(2) H and leaf and xylem water delta(2) H and delta(18) O values from three mangrove species over 9.5 months in a subtropical Australian estuary. Net (2) H/(1) H fractionation between surface water and leaf lipids decreased by 0.5-1.0 per thousand ppt(-1) for n-alkanes and 0.4-0.8 per thousand ppt(-1) for isoprenoids. Xylem water was (2) H depleted relative to surface water, reflecting (2) H discrimination of 4-10 per thousand during water uptake at all salinities and opportunistic uptake of freshwater at high salinity. However, leaf water (2) H enrichment relative to estuary water was insensitive to salinity and identical for all species. Therefore, variations in leaf and xylem water delta(2) H values cannot explain the salinity-dependent (2) H depletion in leaf lipids, nor the 30 per thousand range in leaf lipid delta(2) H values among species. Biochemical changes in direct response to salt stress, such as increased compatible solute production or preferential use of stored carbohydrates, and/or the timing of lipid production and subsequent turnover rates, are more likely causes.
The seed of Coffea arabica accumulates large amounts of cell wall storage polysaccharides (CWSPs) of the mannan family in the cell walls of the endosperm. The variability induced by the growing environment and extensive pairwise correlation analysis with stringent significance thresholds was used to investigate transcript-transcript and transcript-metabolite relationships among 26 sugar-related genes, and the amount of CWSPs and seven soluble low molecular weight carbohydrates in the developing coffee endosperm. A dense module of nine quantitatively co-expressed genes was detected at the mid-developmental stage when CWSPs accumulate. This module included the five genes of the core galactomannan synthetic machinery, namely genes coding for the enzymes needed to assemble the mannan backbone (mannan synthase, ManS), and genes that introduce the galactosyl side chains (galactosyltransferase, GMGT), modulate the post-depositional degree of galactose substitution (alpha-galactosidase), and produce the nucleotide sugar building blocks GDP-mannose and UDP-galactose (mannose-1P guanyltransferase and UDP-glucose 4'-epimerase, respectively). The amount of CWSPs stored in the endosperm at the onset of their accumulation was primarily and quantitatively modulated at the transcriptional level (i.e. positively correlated with the expression level of these key galactomannan biosynthetic genes). This analysis also suggests a role for sorbitol and raffinose family oligosaccharides as transient auxiliary sources of building blocks for galactomannan synthesis. Finally, a microarray-based analysis of the developing seed transcriptome revealed that all genes of the core galactomannan synthesis machinery grouped in a single cluster of 209 co-expressed genes. Analysis of the gene composition of this cluster revealed remarkable functional coherence and identified transcription factors that putatively control galactomannan biosynthesis in coffee.
The behavioral urgency hypothesis suggests that stimuli signaling potential danger will receive attentional priority. However, results from the gaze cueing paradigm have failed to consistently show that emotional expression modulates gaze following. One possible explanation for these null results is that participants are repeatedly exposed to the same emotional expressions during the typical gaze cueing procedure. We employed a relatively novel gaze cueing method in which participants were presented with 2 unique (or "rare") trials during an experimental block. Specifically, either 2 fearful face trials appeared within a block of happy faces or 2 happy face trials appeared within a block of fearful faces. Results showed that when participants were repeatedly exposed to the same emotional expression, gaze cueing was independent of face type. However, when the emotional expression was a rare event, significantly larger cueing occurred for fearful than for happy faces. These results support the behavioral urgency hypothesis and show that emotional expression does indeed modulate gaze following.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of changes in immune, endocrine and metabolic activities, collectively called the acute phase response, seen during infection and tissue injury. The purpose of the present study was to clarify a possible role of the sympathetic nervous system in the responses to IL-1 in rats. Intraperitoneal injection of IL-1 elicited an increase in rectal temperature and white blood cell count and a decrease in the plasma levels of glucose, iron and triglyceride. Pretreatment of rats with 6-hydroxydopamine or a ganglionic blocking agent abolished some of the responses, such as hypoglycemia and the increased white blood cell count. IL-1 injection also accelerated norepinephrine turnover, an index of sympathetic nerve activity, in the spleen and lung without appreciably affecting many other organs, such as the liver, heart, pancreas and brown adipose tissue. It was concluded that IL-1 activates the sympathetic nerves specifically in the spleen and lung, and can thereby influence the immune and metabolic functions of these organs.
It has become increasingly difficult to find an area of cell biology in which lipids do not have important, if not key, roles as signalling and regulatory molecules. The rapidly expanding field of bioactive lipids is exemplified by many sphingolipids, such as ceramide, sphingosine, sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), ceramide-1-phosphate and lyso-sphingomyelin, which have roles in the regulation of cell growth, death, senescence, adhesion, migration, inflammation, angiogenesis and intracellular trafficking. Deciphering the mechanisms of these varied cell functions necessitates an understanding of the complex pathways of sphingolipid metabolism and the mechanisms that regulate lipid generation and lipid action.
The hippocampal formation (HF) is an important site at which stress circuits and endogenous opioid systems intersect, likely playing a critical role in the interaction between stress and drug addiction. Prior study findings suggest that the stress-related neuropeptide corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and the delta opioid receptor (DOR) may localize to similar neuronal populations within HF lamina. Here, hippocampal sections of male and cycling female adult Sprague-Dawley rats were processed for immunolabeling using antisera directed against the DOR and CRF peptide, as well as interneuron subtype markers somatostatin or parvalbumin, and analyzed by fluorescence and electron microscopy. Both DOR- and CRF-labeling was observed in interneurons in the CA1, CA3, and dentate hilus. Males and normal cycling females displayed a similar number of CRF immunoreactive neurons co-labeled with DOR and a similar average number of CRF-labeled neurons in the dentate hilus and stratum oriens of CA1 and CA3. In addition, 70% of DOR/CRF dual-labeled neurons in the hilar region co-labeled with somatostatin, suggesting a role for these interneurons in regulating perforant path input to dentate granule cells. Ultrastructural analysis of CRF-labeled axon terminals within the hilar region revealed that proestrus females have a similar number of CRF-labeled axon terminals that contain DORs compared to males but an increased number of CRF-labeled axon terminals without DORs. Taken together, these findings suggest that while DORs are anatomically positioned to modulate CRF immunoreactive interneuron activity and CRF peptide release, their ability to exert such regulatory activity may be compromised in females when estrogen levels are high.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relation of the level of serum anti-TF, -Tn and -alphaGal carbohydrate antibodies to survival in gastrointestinal cancer patients. METHODS: The level of anti-TF (Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen), -Tn and -alphaGal IgG was analysed in the serum of patients with gastric (n = 83) and colorectal (n = 51) cancers in the long-term follow-up, using ELISA with polyacrylamide glycoconjugates. To evaluate overall survival and the risk of death, the Kaplan-Meier method and the Cox proportional hazards model were used in the univariate analysis of patients groups. RESULTS: A significantly better survival was observed: (1) in patients with an increased level of anti-TF antibodies (all, stage III, T2-4, N1-2 and G3; P = 0.004-0.038, HR = 0.16-0.46); and (2) in patients with an increased level of anti-Tn antibodies (G1-2 tumors; P = 0.034-0.042, HR = 0.34-0.47). A significantly worse survival was observed in gastrointestinal, gastric and colorectal groups with an increased level of serum anti-alphaGal antibodies. This association depended on the patho-morphology of tumors (all, stages I-II, III, T2-4, N0, N1-2 and G1-2; P = 0.006-0.048, HR = 1.99-2.33). In the combined assessment of the anti-TF and -alphaGal antibodies level of the whole gastrointestinal group (n = 53), P = 0.002, HR = 0.25, 95% CI 0.094-0.655. In the follow-up, the survival time was shorter in patients whose level of anti-alphaGal antibodies rose (P = 0.009-0.040, HR = 2.18-4.27). The level of anti-TF antibodies inversely correlated with neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR, r = - 0.401, P = 0.004, n = 49). Patients with a higher level of anti-alphaGal antibodies and NLR values demonstrated a significantly worse survival (P = 0.009, HR = 2.98, n = 48). CONCLUSIONS: The preoperative levels of anti-TF, -Tn and -alphaGal antibodies and their dynamics are of prognostic significance. The method for the determination of circulating anti-carbohydrate antibodies may be a useful supplement in clinical outcome assessment.
Treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia is not necessary in most patients, unless perhaps they have very high levels of uric acid or are otherwise at risk of complications, such as those with a personal or strong family history of gout, urolithiasis, or uric acid nephropathy.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is characterized by a strong propensity toward chronicity. During chronic HCV infection, HCV core protein is implicated in deregulating cytokine expression that associates with chronic inflammation. A20 is known as a powerful suppressor in cytokine signaling, in this study, we explored the A20 expression in macrophages induced by HCV core protein and the involved signaling pathways. Results demonstrated that HCV core protein induced A20 expression in macrophages. Silencing A20 significantly enhanced the secretion of IL-6, IL-1beta and TGF-beta1, but not IL-8 and TNF. Additionally, HCV core protein interacted with gC1qR, but not TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4 in pull-down assay. Silencing gC1qR abrogated core-induced A20 expression. Furthermore, HCV core protein activated MAPK, NF-kappaB and PI3K/AKT pathways in macrophages. Inhibition of P38, JNK and NF-kappaB but not ERK and AKT activities greatly reduced the A20 expression. In conclusion, the study suggests that HCV core protein ligates gC1qR to induce A20 expression in macrophages via P38, JNK and NF-kappaB signaling pathways, which leads to a low-grade chronic inflammation during HCV infection. It represents a novel mechanism by which HCV usurps the host for persistence.
Administration of influenza vaccines through the intranasal (IN) route forms an attractive alternative to conventional intramuscular (IM) injection. It is not only a better accepted form of vaccine administration but it also has the potential to induce, in addition to systemic antibodies, local protective antibodies, i.e. S-IgA. Most commercially available vaccines however are inactivated non-replicating vaccines and have a low immunogenicity when administered intranasally. Local administration of these vaccines would therefore need an adjuvant to boost systemic and local antibody responses. Here we explored the use of a safe adjuvant system, i.e. bacterium-like particles (BLPs) derived from the food-grade bacterium in Lactococcus lactis, in the induction of protective antibody responses after intranasal immunization of mice. Supplementation of H1N1 split vaccine with BLPs significantly increased levels of serum influenza-specific IgG and hemagglutination-inhibiting antibodies: this was dependent on the dose of admixed BLPs and number of immunizations. Admixing BLPs further boosted local influenza-specific S-IgA antibody levels at lung and nasal mucosal sites, but also at distant mucosal sites such as the vaginal mucosal tissue. Mice immunized IN with BLP-adjuvanted vaccine and IM with non-adjuvanted vaccine were protected against weight loss upon homologous infection with H1N1 A/PR/8/34. Full protection against weight loss upon heterologous challenge with H1N1 A/PR/8/34 was seen in mice immunized IN with BLP-adjuvanted H1N1 A/New Caledonia-derived split virus vaccine, but not in those receiving the split virus vaccine IM. Mice immunized IN with BLP-adjuvanted vaccine had significantly lower lung viral titers upon homologous and heterologous challenge when compared to titers detected in mice immunized by IM injection of non-adjuvanted vaccine. Thus, adjuvantation of IN-administered influenza vaccines with BLPs effectively enhances systemic and local antibody responses leading to a superior protection against homologous and heterologous influenza infection compared to conventional IM immunization.
CONTEXT: Calcineurin (CN), a unique protein phosphatase, plays an important role in immune regulation. Our laboratory has established an effective molecular drug-screening model based on CN activity. OBJECTIVE: Our aim is to search for an effective immunosuppressant from Glycyrrhiza uralensis (Leguminosae). MATERIALS AND METHODS: As guided by CN inhibitory test, an active compound was purified and identified as glycyrol. Immunosuppressive activity of glycyrol in vitro was assayed by T lymphocytes proliferation and mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). In addition, delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction (DTH) and skin allograft test in vivo were also carried out. Further, we have investigated the effect of glycyrol on phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)/ionomycin (Io)-stimulated IL-2 expression in Jurkat cells. RESULTS: The enzymatic assay showed glycyrol (IC(50) = 84.6 muM) inhibited calcineurin activity in a dose-dependent manner. Glycyrol, at the non-cytotoxic concentration, significantly inhibited proliferation of murine spleen T lymphocytes induced by Concanavalin A (Con A) and mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) in vitro. In addition, mice treated with glycyrol had shown the dose-dependent decrease in delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) and prolonged the graft survival by 59% compared to the control group (*p < 0.05). RT-PCR showed glycyrol suppressed IL-2 production in a concentration-dependent manner. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Our results show the immunosuppressive activity of glycyrol and this activity should be due to its inhibitory effect on CN activity, thereby suppressing IL-2 production and regulating T lymphocytes. Thus, glycyrol could be a candidate for development as a novel immunomodulatory drug.
Inappropriate therapy (IT) and delayed initiation of appropriate therapy (DIAT) result in inadequate therapy in patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP). The aim of the current study was to assess the impact of DIAT in VAP. A total of 76 mechanically ventilated patients with bacteriologically confirmed VAP were prospectively evaluated in the intensive care unit of six hospitals in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Appropriate therapy was defined as coverage of all the identified pathogens by the antimicrobial therapy administered at the time of VAP clinical diagnosis. The clinical pulmonary infection score was measured during the 3 days before, at the onset and during the days which followed the onset of VAP. A total of 24 patients received adequate therapy; mortality was 29.2%. The remaining 52 patients received either IT (n = 16) or DIAT (n = 36); the mortality was 63.5% combined, and 75.0 and 58.3% for IT and DIAT, respectively (statistically significant compared with adequate therapy). Inappropriate therapy and delayed initiation of appropriate therapy increased the mortality of ventilator-associated pneumonia. Patients with inappropriate therapy and/or delayed initiation of appropriate therapy had a more gradual increase in clinical pulmonary infection score than those receiving adequate therapy, and this increase was found to occur prior to the time of the clinical diagnosis. In conclusion, these findings might provide the rationale for a trial of earlier initiation of therapy, based on clinical grounds in an effort to improve the outcome of patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia.
Phage display is a prominent screening technique with a multitude of applications including therapeutic antibody development and mapping of antigen epitopes. In this study, phages were selected based on their interaction with patient serum and exhaustively characterised by high-throughput sequencing. A bioinformatics approach was developed in order to identify peptide motifs of interest based on clustering and contrasting to control samples. Comparison of patient and control samples confirmed a major issue in phage display, namely the selection of unspecific peptides. The potential of the bioinformatic approach was demonstrated by identifying epitopes of a prominent peanut allergen, Ara h 1, in sera from patients with severe peanut allergy. The identified epitopes were confirmed by high-density peptide micro-arrays. The present study demonstrates that high-throughput sequencing can empower phage display by (i) enabling the analysis of complex biological samples, (ii) circumventing the traditional laborious picking and functional testing of individual phage clones and (iii) reducing the number of selection rounds.
Identifying an appropriate ethical approach to guide research with historically exploited peoples, indigenous or disadvantaged, places the nurse researcher in an unenviable position. Conventional ethical procedures may be appropriate for the predominant society and academia; however, these have the potential to further disable the aspirations and integrity of those who are the focus of the research. The present paper examines a number of ethical guidelines designed by and in collaboration with Australia's indigenous peoples. The guidelines of the National Health and Medical Research Council (1991) are used as the benchmark for the discussion as these are the most frequently referred to and used in the approval of nursing and health research. The concepts and approaches discussed may be considered in other contexts where nursing research is conducted with or about historically disadvantaged peoples.
Binding of the protein Raf to the active form of Ras promotes activation of the MAP kinase signaling pathway, triggering cell growth and differentiation. Raf/Arg89 in the center of the binding interface plays an important role determining Ras-Raf binding affinity. We have investigated experimentally and computationally the Raf-R89K mutation, which abolishes signaling in vivo. The binding to [gamma-35S]GTP-Ras of a fusion protein between the Raf-binding domain (RBD) of Raf and GST was reduced at least 175-fold by the mutation, corresponding to a standard binding free energy decrease of at least 3.0 kcal/mol. To compute this free energy and obtain insights into the microscopic interactions favoring binding, we performed alchemical simulations of the RBD, both complexed to Ras and free in solution, in which residue 89 is gradually mutated from Arg into Lys. The simulations give a standard binding free energy decrease of 2.9+/-1.9 kcal/mol, in agreement with experiment. The use of numerous runs with three different force fields allows insights into the sources of uncertainty in the free energy and its components. The binding decreases partly because of a 7 kcal/mol higher cost to desolvate Lys upon binding, compared to Arg, due to better solvent interactions with the more concentrated Lys charge in the unbound state. This effect is expected to be general, contributing to the lower propensity of Lys to participate in protein-protein interfaces. Large contributions to the free energy change also arise from electrostatic interactions with groups up to 8 A away, namely residues 37-41 in the conserved effector domain of Ras (including 4 kcal/mol from Ser39 which loses a bifurcated hydrogen bond to Arg89), the conserved Lys84 and Lys87 of Raf, and 2-3 specific water molecules. This analysis will provide insights into the large experimental database of Ras-Raf mutations.
NAD glycohydrolase (NADase; EC 3.2.2.5) is an enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of NAD to produce ADP-ribose and nicotinamide. We recently demonstrated that self-inactivation of NADase from rabbit erythrocytes was due to an auto-ADP-ribosylation. In the present study, a mechanism of self-inactivation of NADase from Neurospora crassa by its substrate was investigated by using intact mycelia of N. crassa and purified NADase, which had molecular characteristics different from mammalian NADases. The results suggested that inactivation of NADase from N. crassa was also due to an auto-ADP-ribosylation. These findings indicate that the auto-modification of NADase is one of the universal phenomena to regulate enzyme functions.
Epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (EHAE) is a malignant vascular tumor derived from endothelial cell often misdiagnosed as Hepatic carcinoma on the basis of radiological features. Till now etiology of this rare curiosity is unknown but it is related with use of oral contraceptives pills (OCP), liver trauma, exposure to vinyl chloride and hepatitis. We herein report on a case which failed to be diagnosed by cytopathology, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Patient was a 46 yr old man presented with abdominal distension for a month. Initial liver function test (LFT) was increased whereas renal function test (RFT) and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) were normal. His abdominal ultrasound revealed multiple hypoechoic nodules and multiple liver calcifications. Subsequently laparoscopic omental biopsy and Ultrasound guided liver biopsy was done showing the neoplastic cells scattered in fibrous stroma. The immunohistochemistry for endothelial tumor cells stained positive for Vimentin (+++), CD10 (+++), CD34 (++), CD31 (+), Factor VIII antigen (focal) (+) and low proliferative activity for ki-67. Our case is very interesting in which patient admitted with nonspecific symptoms of abdominal pain and diagnosed to be a Malignant Hepatic EHAE metastasized to the peritoneum, omentum and mesentery. The patient was on thalidomide 50 mg/day and increased to 100 mg/day. 5-Flurouracil (FU) intraperitoneal chemotherapy and other symptomatic and supportive treatment was given to the patient. Our case highlights on the importance of immunohistopathological diagnosis, compare the radiological findings of this disease and discuss the treatment strategy with review of available literature.
Simian and human foamy viruses (SFV and HFV) encode a transcriptional transactivator, Tas, which governs the levels of viral transcripts initiated by both the promoter in the long terminal repeat (LTR) and the internal promoter (IP) located within the env gene of these viruses. Tas-responsive target elements,(TRE) LTR in the LTR and (TRE) IP in the env gene, are located 5' of the TATA box in both viral promoters and function as orientation- and position-independent enhancers. We have identified a strong Tas-responsive element, designated TRE (GP), near the 3' end of the gag gene and preceding the pol gene of SFV-1. In transient-expression assays with plasmids containing reporter genes, a 59-bp DNA fragment containing TRE (GP) (nucleotides 2224 to 2282) functioned as an enhancer element, dependent on Tas, in several cell types and in the context of a heterologous basal promoter. DNase footprinting revealed that the fusion protein glutathione S-transferase-Tas, purified from genetically engineered bacteria, interacts with about 40 hp (nucleotides 2237 to 2279) in the TRE (GP). A low degree of sequence homology was noted between TRE (GP) and TRE (IP). In virus-infected cells, novel transcripts with 5' ends immediately upstream from the reverse transcriptase translation frame (nucleotides 2611 to 5778) were identified. Upstream of the start site for these transcripts is a TATA box (nucleotides 2575 to 2579), which was required for transcription in transient-expression assays. Although a spliced mRNA initiated in the viral LTR is implicated in the synthesis of the HFV Pol polyprotein which encodes protease, reverse transcriptase, and integrase, it is possible that SFV-1 contains a promoter within the pol gene for initiating a reverse transcriptase transcript. Taken together, these studies define a novel Tas-responsive enhancer element, which binds the viral transactivator, and a potential promoter within the pol gene.
A retrospective review of 241 cases of epithelioid sarcoma reaffirmed the propensity of this tumor to occur in the distal extremities of young adults. The tumor was generally firm and nontender, and involved the dermis, subcutis or deeper soft tissues, particularly fascial planes, aponeuroses, and tendon sheaths. Follow-up data, available in 202 cases (84%), showed a 77% recurrence and a 45% metastatic rate. The most common initial sites of metastasis were lymph nodes (48%) and lungs (25%). A more aggressive course was associated with a proximal or axial tumor location, increased size and depth, hemorrhage, mitotic figures, necrosis, or the presence of vascular invasion. More favorable behavior was observed when the tumor arose in younger individuals, in distal extremities, or in females between the ages of 10 and 49. (The last observation calls for further work with steroid receptors.) Radical excision or amputation still appears to be the initial treatment of choice, though adjunctive high-dose radiotherapy to the excision site may prove to be of additional value.
A series of ultrashort lipopeptides and lipopeptoids were tested for their ability to induce cytokine production in macrophages. Fourteen compounds were found to strongly induce production of chemokines Groalpha and IL-8, with a structural bias that was absent from previous antibacterial activity investigations. Compounds based on LysGlyLys and NLysGlyNLys sequences did not induce cytokine production, whereas those based on LysLysLys and NLysNLysNLys were active only when linked to a lipid tail at least sixteen carbons long. Three lipopeptides induced high levels of IL-8 production, above that of equivalent concentrations of cathelicidin LL-37, while no compound induced production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-alpha at or below 100 microM. Two compounds, peptoids C16OH-NLysNLysNLys and C16OH-NHarNHarNHar, were selective for IL-8 production and did not induce TNF-alpha or IL-1beta. These compounds may prove beneficial for in vivo treatment of infectious disease, with improved bioavailability over LL-37 due to their protease-resistant scaffold.
OBJECTIVE: Paediatric clinical trials are often conducted as multinational trials. Informed consent or assent is part of the ethics committee approval for clinical trials. The consent requirements vary between countries due to national laws and regulations, which are not harmonised in Europe. These discrepancies can present challenges for paediatric clinical trials. The aim of this study was to assemble these consent and assent requirements across the European Economic Area. The collated national requirements have not been publicly available before, despite a real need for this data. METHODS: National consent and assent requirements for paediatric clinical trials were analysed and collated for 25 European Union Member States and 2 European Free Trade Association countries until the end of 2014. The data were retrieved from existing databases and through communication with the competent authorities and selected ethics committees. Results from a literature search for international or national guidelines, declarations and conventions and academic societies' publications served as comparison material. RESULTS: Consent and assent requirements are heterogeneous across these countries. We compiled our findings in 'The Informed Consent and Assent Tool Kit', a table including 27 national consent and assent requirements listed by individual country. CONCLUSIONS: Wide variation in paediatric consents and assents presents challenges for multinational paediatric trials in Europe. The toolkit is available for all those involved in paediatric clinical trials and ethics committees, providing a new platform for proactive feedback on informed consent requirements, and may finally lead to a needed harmonisation process, including uniform standards accepted across Europe.
Fluorescence-activated cell scanning analysis of human blood cells revealed novel urokinase receptors in large granular lymphocytes and a small subset of T-cells (CD3+). Culturing of T-cells with interleukin-2 to generate CD3+ lymphokine-activated killer cells caused a large increase in urokinase binding, suggesting that the urokinase receptor is an activation antigen. The receptor in lymphocytes was similar to that in monocytes with regard to size, affinity and ligand specificity, but did not mediate degradation of urokinase-inhibitor complexes. It is suggested that lymphocyte-bound pro-urokinase is activated, e.g. by the human T-cell-specific serine proteinase, HuTSP-1, and thereby starts a cascade of plasminogen activation important for extravasation of the cells.
Multivariate methods such as factor analysis and cluster analysis have been used for many years by psychiatric researchers primarily for investigating the problems of psychiatric diagnosis. In more recent times, the range of multivariate techniques used has been extended as has the number of areas in which they are being applied.
Hsp90 functions to facilitate the folding of newly synthesized and denatured proteins. Hsp90 function is modulated through its interactions with cochaperones and the binding and hydrolysis of ATP. Recently, novobiocin has been shown to bind to a second nucleotide binding site located within the C-terminal domain of Hsp90. In this report, we have examined the effect of novobiocin on Hsp90 function in reticulocyte lysate. Novobiocin specifically inhibited the maturation of the heme-regulated eIF2alpha kinase (HRI) in a concentration-dependent manner. Novobiocin induced the dissociation of Hsp90 and Cdc37 from immature HRI, while the Hsp90 cochaperones p23, FKBP52, and protein phosphatase 5 remained associated with immature HRI. Proteolytic fingerprinting of Hsp90 indicated that novobiocin had a distinct effect on the conformation of Hsp90, and molybdate lowered the concentration of novobiocin required to alter Hsp90's conformation by 10-fold. The recombinant C-terminal domain of Hsp90 adopted a proteolytic resistant conformation in the presence of novobiocin, indicating that alteration of Hsp90/cochaperone interactions was not the cause of the novobiocin-induced protease resistance within Hsp90's C-terminal domain. The concentration dependence of this novobiocin-induced conformation change correlated with the dissociation of Hsp90 and Cdc37 from immature HRI and novobiocin-induced inhibition of Hsp90/Cdc37-dependent activation of HRI's autokinase activity. The data suggest that binding of novobiocin to the C-terminal nucleotide binding site of Hsp90 induces a change in Hsp90's conformation leading to the dissociation of bound kinase. The unique structure and properties of novobocin-bound Hsp90 suggest that it may represent the "client-release" conformation of the Hsp90 machine.
Bone is a favored location for several cancer metastases especially breast, prostate and myeloma. This review evaluates various properties of the skeleton that contribute to its successful colonization by breast cancer cells. The first consideration is the unique aspects of the vasculature of metaphyseal bone, which may account for the initial lodging of breast cancer cells in specific regions of the skeleton. Metasphyseal bone, found at the ends of long bone, in ribs and in vertebrae, is comprised of trabecular bone interspersed with marrow and a rich vasculature. The chemotactic factors that arise from bone marrow and bone cells are discussed in terms of cancer cell migration out of the vasculature and entry of cancer cells into the marrow cavity. Once the breast cancer cells have migrated into the metaphysis, they interact both directly and indirectly with bone cells and other cells in the marrow. As tumor growth progresses, functional bone cells are lost, most likely through apoptosis.
Young people with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have a high prevalence (~40 %) of anxiety disorders compared to their non-ASD peers. It is unclear whether cognitive and biological processes associated with anxiety in ASD are analogous to anxiety in typically developing (TD) populations. In this study 55 boys with ASD (34 with a co-occurring anxiety disorder, 21 without) and 28 male controls, aged 10-16 years and with a full-scale IQ >/= 70, completed a series of clinical, cognitive (attention bias/interpretation bias) and biological measures (salivary cortisol/HR response to social stress) associated with anxiety in TD populations. Structural equation modelling was used to reveal that that both attentional biases and physiological responsiveness were significant, but unrelated, predictors of anxiety in ASD.
The protease a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM) 17 cleaves tumor necrosis factor (TNF), L-selectin, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) ligands from the plasma membrane. ADAM17 is expressed in most tissues and is up-regulated during inflammation and cancer. ADAM17-deficient mice are not viable. Conditional ADAM17 knockout models demonstrated proinflammatory activities of ADAM17 in septic shock via shedding of TNF. We used a novel gene targeting strategy to generate mice with dramatically reduced ADAM17 levels in all tissues. The resulting mice called ADAM17(ex/ex) were viable, showed compromised shedding of ADAM17 substrates from the cell surface, and developed eye, heart, and skin defects as a consequence of impaired EGF-R signaling caused by failure of shedding of EGF-R ligands. Unexpectedly, although the intestine of unchallenged homozygous ADAM17(ex/ex) mice was normal, ADAM17(ex/ex) mice showed substantially increased susceptibility to inflammation in dextran sulfate sodium colitis. This was a result of impaired shedding of EGF-R ligands resulting in failure to phosphorylate STAT3 via the EGF-R and, consequently, in defective regeneration of epithelial cells and breakdown of the intestinal barrier. Besides regulating the systemic availability of the proinflammatory cytokine TNF, our results demonstrate that ADAM17 is needed for vital regenerative activities during the immune response. Thus, our mouse model will help investigate ADAM17 as a potential drug target.
A mechanistic model of uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation by lipophilic weak acids (i.e. proton shuttles) was developed for the purposes of predicting the relative activity of xenobiotics of widely varying structure and of guiding the design of optimized derivatives. The model is based on thermodynamic premises not formulated elsewhere that allow for the calculation of steady-state conditions and of rate of energy dissipation on the basis of acid-dissociation and permeability behavior, the later estimated from partitioning behavior and geometric considerations. Moreover, permeability of either the neutral or of the ionized species is proposed to be effectively enhanced under conditions of asymmetrical molecular distribution. Finally, special considerations were developed to accommodate multi-protic compounds. The comparison of predicted to measured activity for a diverse testset of 48 compounds of natural origin spanning a wide range of activity yielded a Spearman's rho of 0.90. The model was used to tentatively identify several novel proton shuttles, as well as to elucidate core structures particularly conducive to proton shuttle activity from which optimized derivatives can be designed. Principles of design were formulated and examples of derivatives projected to be active at concentrations on the order of 10(-7)M are proposed. Among these are di-protic compounds predicted to shuttle two protons per cycle iteration and proposed to maximally exploit the proton shuttle mechanism. This work promotes the design of highly active, yet easily-metabolized uncouplers for therapeutic applications, namely the indirect activation of AMP-kinase, as well as for various industrial applications where low persistence is desirable.
HP (2-20) is a 19-aa, amphipathic, alpha-helical peptide with antimicrobial properties that was derived from the N-terminus of Helicobacter pylori ribosomal protein L1. We previously showed that increasing the net hydrophobicity of HP (2-20) by substituting Trp for Gln(17) and Asp(19) (Anal 3) increased the peptide's antimicrobial activity. In hydrophobic medium, Anal 3 forms an amphipathic structure consisting of an N-terminal random coil region (residues 2-5) and an extended helical region (residues 6-20). To investigate the structure-activity relationship of Anal 3, we substituted Pro for Glu(9) (Anal 3-Pro) and then examined the new peptide's three-dimensional structure, antimicrobial activity and mechanism of action. Anal 3-Pro had an alpha-helical structure in the presence of trifluoroethanol (TFE) and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). NMR spectroscopic analysis of Anal 3-Pro's tertiary structure in SDS micelles confirmed that the kink potential introduced by Pro(10) was responsible for the helix distortion. We also found that Anal 3-Pro exhibited about 4 times greater antimicrobial activity than Anal 3. Fluorescence activated flow cytometry and confocal fluorescence microscopy showed that incorporating a Pro-hinge into Anal 3 markedly reduced its membrane permeability so that it accumulated in the cytoplasm without remaining in the cell membrane. To investigate the translocation mechanism, we assessed its ability to release of FITC-dextran. The result showed Anal 3-Pro created a pore <1.8 nm in diameter, which is similar to buforin II. Notably, scanning electron microscopic observation of Candida albicans revealed that Anal 3-Pro and buforin II exert similar effects on cell membranes, whereas magainin 2 exerts a different, more damaging, effect. In addition, Anal 3-Pro assumed a helix-hinge-helix structure in the presence of biological membranes and formed micropores in both bacterial and fungal membranes, through which it entered the cytoplasm and tightly bound to DNA. These results indicate that the bending region of Anal 3- Pro peptide is prerequisite for effective antibiotic activity and may facilitate easy penetration of the lipid bilayers of the cell membrane.
A nonparametric method for linkage analysis has been developed and applied to the Problem 1 data set of the Genetic Analysis Workshop 9. Basically, the univariate matched pair strategy of the transmission disequilibrium test has been adapted to multivariate modeling using the conditional logistic function. After setting the critical value for significance at p < or = 0.0001, models at only D5G23 and D1G31 appear to be significant (p < 10(-7)). Logistic transmission modeling is a powerful method for establishing linkage by disequilibrium.
Appropriate field management of crop residues can help to enhance soil productivity and nutrient recycling, and to minimize greenhouse gas emission. In this paper, a 15N tracer pot experiment was installed to study the effect of incorporating corn stalk and stubble into black soil on the nitrogen transformation in soil-plant ecosystem. The results indicated that compared with single application of N fertilizer, incorporation of corn stalk and stubble could increase soil nitrogen content and enhance its availability, and increase soil microbial nitrogen content. It also promoted the transfer of nitrogen in corn into its kernel, so as to increase the nitrogen use efficiency. Simultaneously, it reduced the content of soil NO3(-)-N, and decreased the fertilizer nitrogen loss by 4.7-5.6%.
Human fetal thymus/liver engrafted SCID mice were constructed and studied for its susceptibility to HIVBRU infection by i.v. inoculation which seemed to represent an appropriate route of HIV infection in vivo. By the i.v. inoculation of HIV, the medulla in the engrafted thymus narrowed significantly when compared with that of the human thymic implant from virus-uninoculated mice. Further, immunohistochemical staining indicated the presence of HIV antigen predominantly in thymic epithelial cells in medulla of the engrafted thymus. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays resulted in amplifications of HIV genome in the implanted grafts as well as in lymph nodes and PBMC. The virus infections to the implants were confirmed biologically by coculturing with PHA-stimulated human PBMC and the graft cells from the HIV-inoculated SCID-hu mice. Thus, the i.v. inoculation of HIV into Thy/Liv SCID-hu mice induce narrowing of medulla of the engrafted thymus and may become an efficient and useful tool for screening candidate anti-HIV agents.
Corneal kindling is a useful alternative to electrically induced amygdala or hippocampal kindling, which requires advanced surgical and EEG techniques that may not be easily available in many laboratories. Therefore the first aim of this study was to evaluate whether repeated 6 Hz corneal stimulation in mice would lead to an increased and persistent seizure response as described for higher frequency (50/60 Hz) corneal kindling. Male NMRI mice stimulated twice daily (except weekends) for 3 s with 6 Hz electrical current at 44 mA displayed robust kindling development, i.e., a progressive increase in seizure severity. The majority of the animals (about 90%) developed a fully kindled state, defined as at least 10 consecutive stage 3-5 seizures within 5 weeks of corneal stimulation. Afterwards, the fully kindled state was maintained for at least 8 weeks with only two days of stimulations per week. Next, the protective efficacy of four mechanistically different antiepileptic drugs (AEDs; clonazepam, valproate, carbamazepine and levetiracetam) was assessed and compared between 6 Hz and 50 Hz fully kindled mice. All tested AEDs showed a relatively lower potency in the 6 Hz kindling model and a limited efficacy against partial seizures was observed with carbamazepine and levetiracetam. We can conclude that 6 Hz kindling may be more advantageous than the previously described 50/60 Hz corneal kindling models due to its robustness and persistence of the fully kindled state. Furthermore, the observed low potency and limited efficacy of AEDs in 6 Hz fully kindled mice suggest that this model could be a useful tool in the discovery of novel AEDs targeting treatment resistant epilepsy.
Dissimilatory manganese reduction dominates anaerobic carbon oxidation in marine sediments with high manganese oxide concentrations, but the microorganisms responsible for this process are largely unknown. In this study, the acetate-utilizing manganese-reducing microbiota in geographically well-separated, manganese oxide-rich sediments from Gullmar Fjord (Sweden), Skagerrak (Norway) and Ulleung Basin (Korea) were analyzed by 16S rRNA-stable isotope probing (SIP). Manganese reduction was the prevailing terminal electron-accepting process in anoxic incubations of surface sediments, and even the addition of acetate stimulated neither iron nor sulfate reduction. The three geographically distinct sediments harbored surprisingly similar communities of acetate-utilizing manganese-reducing bacteria: 16S rRNA of members of the genera Colwellia and Arcobacter and of novel genera within the Oceanospirillaceae and Alteromonadales were detected in heavy RNA-SIP fractions from these three sediments. Most probable number (MPN) analysis yielded up to 10(6) acetate-utilizing manganese-reducing cells cm(-3) in Gullmar Fjord sediment. A 16S rRNA gene clone library that was established from the highest MPN dilutions was dominated by sequences of Colwellia and Arcobacter species and members of the Oceanospirillaceae, supporting the obtained RNA-SIP results. In conclusion, these findings strongly suggest that (i) acetate-dependent manganese reduction in manganese oxide-rich sediments is catalyzed by members of taxa (Arcobacter, Colwellia and Oceanospirillaceae) previously not known to possess this physiological function, (ii) similar acetate-utilizing manganese reducers thrive in geographically distinct regions and (iii) the identified manganese reducers differ greatly from the extensively explored iron reducers in marine sediments.
1. Video imaging of single, fura2-loaded vascular smooth muscle cells was used to examine the spatial and temporal alterations in calcium, Ca2+, in response to low levels of vasoconstrictor stimuli. 2. Histamine (0.5 mumol/L) produced repetitive oscillations in Ca2+, which appeared to show some variation in amplitude and frequency between cells. 3. Individual oscillations consisted of an initial increase in Ca2+ in a localized region followed by a wave-like propagation of this region of elevated Ca2+ throughout the rest of the cell cytoplasm. 4. It is suggested that the subcellular spatial organization of Ca2+ that was observed during a Ca2+ oscillation allows a population of cells to operate in unison. Thus, oscillatory fluctuations in Ca2+ may contribute to myogenic tone.
Among nine monozygotic (MZ) and 12 dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs in which an index case had typical Parkinson's disease (PD) or PD with associated dementia, three MZ and three DZ pairs were concordant. Three of the six affected co-twins were first diagnosed during the study. Occurrence of PD in families of MZ and DZ index cases was more frequent than expected from population rates. The study underlines the need for personal examination using defined criteria in a cross-sectional twin study on PD. Although the study did not establish a major genetic impact in the etiology of PD, a genetic predisposition for the disease cannot be ruled out for some individuals.
Vessel boundary detection and 3D modeling is a difficult but necessary task in analyzing the mechanics of inflammation and the structure of the microvasculature. We present in this paper a method of analyzing this structure by the means of the deformable model (using GVF Snake) for vessel boundary detection and three-dimensional reconstruction. For this purpose, we used a virtual vessel model and produced synthetic images. From these images, we obtained contours of vessels by the GVF Snake and then reconstructed a three-dimensional structure by using the coordinates of the Snakes.
Soft tissue coverage in the distal lower extremity remains a significant challenge. While free flaps are often utilized for larger defects, local perforator-based propeller flaps may be ideal for smaller wounds requiring coverage. Propeller flaps can provide excellent form and function for both traumatic and atraumatic defects with minimal donor site morbidity but can have concerning rates of flap loss. We reviewed the literature, identifying 21 studies presenting 310 propeller flaps for distal lower extremity reconstruction. Total flap necrosis was noted in 5.5% of flaps, with partial necrosis in 11.6%. While these flaps do enable transfer of local, healthy tissue to the defect site without the need for a microsurgical anastomosis, this rate of flap loss is concerning and appropriate patient selection is crucial. This review provides a brief history and overview of the clinical application and research into distal lower extremity perforator propeller flaps to place this technique into a clinical context.
To precisely identify and screen target-specific protein-protein interactions at the endogenous level, here we introduce a novel quantitative proteomic method we have termed in vivo Profiling Endogenous Interactions with Knock-out (iPEIK). In our design, mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) derived from target gene knockout (KO) mice can be stable isotope-tagged and serve as a target-free background to "light-up" the target protein-specific protein complex formed in the corresponding wild-type (WT) cells. In mass spectrometric analysis of the pairs of non-labeled versus heavy isotope-labeled peptide signals derived from WT versus KO cells, respectively, we then quantitatively measured the abundance differences of the proteins in the complex immunoprecipitated (IP) from the target-expressing WT versus target-absent KO cells, respectively. Those proteins detected with little or no presence in the cells of KO origin were determined as target-specific interacting partners. Further, dynamic interactors could be identified through different IP mixing schemes. Using iPEIK we identified multiple interacting partners both previously known and unknown to be associated with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 2 (MEKK2). Because of the availability of a large library of knockout mice models with various target proteins of biological interests our method is generally applicable to screen any endogenous target-specific PPIs of physiological relevance.
A temperature-sensitive mutant (dna-11) with the phenotype of a mutant defective in the initiation of DNA replication, was isolated from an Hfr-like FP2 donor of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Reversion of its temperature-sensitive character was achieved by integrative suppression rather than by backmutation or an additional suppressor mutation. The dna-11 mutant proved to be helpful in stabilizing the Hfr status of the original host.
The acquisition of FSH receptor(s) during follicular growth and their coupling to signaling pathways are key events in follicular development and dominance. However, little is known about the precise nature of the FSH receptor(s) involved in the growth-promoting phases of hormone action. To investigate the hormonal regulation of a newly discovered, alternatively spliced, growth factor type 1 receptor (designated FSH-R3) for the hormone, we examined expression in the adult mouse and the effect of PMSG treatment in the immature mouse ovary. Using RT-PCR and primers based on the established sheep ovarian transcript, a part of the FSH-R3 message was amplified only in wild-type (+/+), but not in the FSH-R knockout (-/-), mouse ovary. Semiquantitative RT-PCR using 3'-end primers specific for FSH-R1 (G(s)-coupled) and FSH-R3 indicated expression levels of the latter to be higher when follicular growth was induced by PMSG. Using FSH-R3-specific peptide IgG, FSH-R3 protein was detected by Western blotting in extracts of adult mouse ovary and was localized in granulosa cell membrane of mature follicles. In the immature mouse, levels of FSH-R3 protein that increased after PMSG administration in a time-dependent manner were also localized only on granulosa cell membranes of large follicles. The results reveal for the first time the expression of a different growth-promoting receptor for FSH in the developing and cycling mouse ovary. These observations introduce a new paradigm in the control of ovarian function.
OBJECTIVES: The study aimed to evaluate different imaging localizations of the classical Lacunar syndromes, including multiplicity of lacunes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This prospective study was conducted in a tertiary care municipal hospital over 2 years. Patients with clinical Lacunar syndromes, confirmed on imaging, were evaluated for etiopathogenetic factors, lesion localization, and presence of multiple simItaneous lacunes. Angiographic data and cognitive evaluation was done in a subset of the cohort. RESULTS: 82 patients were studied, 12 undergoing DSA and 46 being evaluated cognitively. Commonest risk factors were Hypertension (97%) and tobacco usage (62%). Pure motor stroke (PMS-70.7%) was the commonest lacunar syndrome, Internal capsular lesions accounting for 53.4% of this syndrome. Among PMS, localisation to Carotid territory was seen in 84.4%, to vertebrobasilar territory in 10.3% and to both in 5.1% of patients. Sensorimotor lacunar syndrome was seen in 14.6% patients, half of them having a thalamic lesion. Overall, 17% patients had multiple simultaneous lacunes, over half of these being cortical, and multiplicity being seen in PMS most commonly. Of 46 patients tested for cognition, 69.5% showed significantly low scores on ACER, with a significant association with multiplicity of lacunes in this group. CONCLUSIONS: In our study, Pure motor stroke was the commonest lacunar syndrome, 84% of PMS being due to Anterior circulation stroke. Multiple lacunes of similar age were seen in 17% patients, the predominantly cortical localization of these raising a possibility of embolism. Postlacunar stroke executive dysfunction was seen in over two-thirds of our patients.
The aim of the presented paper was to compare the Falck-Hillarp histofluoresce method for monoamines with its cryostat modification and the glyoxylic acid SPG method. The sensitivity and specificity of these methods and also the occurence of unspecific fluorescence is discussed.
In humans, 2 functionally different types of adipose tissue coexist: white adipose tissue (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT). WAT is involved in energy storage, whereas BAT is involved in energy expenditure. Increased amounts of WAT may contribute to the development of metabolic disorders, such as obesity-associated type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular diseases. In contrast, the thermogenic function of BAT allows high consumption of fatty acids because of the activity of uncoupling protein 1 in the internal mitochondrial membrane. Interestingly, obesity reduction and insulin sensitization have been achieved by BAT activation-regeneration in animal models. This review describes the origin, function, and differentiation mechanisms of BAT to identify new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of metabolic disorders related to obesity. On the basis of the animal studies, novel approaches for BAT regeneration combining stem cells from the adipose tissue with active components, such as melatonin, may have potential for the treatment of metabolic disorders in humans.
A leukotoxin of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans 301-b was solubilized from cell-associated membrane vesicles by treatment with externally added DNase and RNase and was further purified by a procedure which included ammonium sulfate fractionation, gel filtration chromatography, and ion-exchange chromatography. The purified toxin had a molecular mass of 113,000 Da by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and a high isoelectric point (approximately 8.8). From these characteristics, it was to be expected that the membrane vesicle toxin was almost identical to the leukotoxin extracted with polymyxin B in an earlier study (C.-C. Tsai, B. J. Shenker, J. M. DiRienzo, D. Malamud, and N. S. Taichman, Infect, Immun. 43:700-705, 1984). The treatment with DNase and RNase was also highly effective for solubilizing the leukotoxin directly from whole cells, suggesting that the toxin is secreted extracellularly but retained in nucleic acids on the outermost surface of bacterial cells.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to clarify the impact of acquired and innate immunity on spinal cord ischemia and reperfusion injury using a mouse model of spinal cord ischemia. METHODS: To define the ischemic duration that caused paraplegia, wild-type and severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice were subjected to cross-clamping of the aorta for 7, 9, 9.5, or 10.5 min with ischemic preconditioning for intestinal protection. In wild-type and SCID mice with paraplegia, histological analyses were performed to investigate viable neurons, inflammatory cells, and reactive astrocytes at 12, 24, 48, and 72 h as well as 7 days after reperfusion. RESULTS: In both wild-type and SCID mice, immediate paraplegia was induced by occlusion for 10.5 min. In both wild-type and SCID mice, no infiltration of T or B lymphocytes was observed at any point after reperfusion, but reactive astrocytes were clearly visible at 7 days after reperfusion, and the number of activated microglia peaked at 12 and 48 h after reperfusion. Although there was no significant difference, wild-type mice had a tendency to have more activated microglia than SCID mice at 12 h after reperfusion, and to have less viable neurons than SCID mice at 12, 24, 48, and 72 h after reperfusion. There was a tendency that the frequency of immediate paraplegia in wild-type mice was more than SCID mice though no statistical difference was observed. CONCLUSIONS: Innate immunity, rather than acquired immunity, may be involved in the developing immediate paraplegia in our mouse model.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF, 1-O-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine) and its receptor are known to play important roles in modulating neuronal plasticity and inflammatory responses, particularly during neuronal injury. PAF receptors are widespread in different brain regions and are present on the cell surface as well as in intracellular membrane compartments. Astrocytes are immune active cells and are responsive to cytokines, which stimulate signaling cascades leading to transcriptional activation of genes and protein synthesis. Our recent studies indicate the ability of cytokines, e.g., tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), to induce the inducible nitric oxide (iNOS) and secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) genes in immortalized astrocytes (DITNC) (Li et al., J. Interferon and Cytokine Res. 19: 121-127. 1999). The main objective for this study is to examine the effects of PAF antagonists on cytokine induction of iNOS and sPLA2 in these cells. Results show that BN50730, a synthetic PAF antagonist, but not BN52021, a natural PAF antagonist (ginkolide B) can dose-dependently inhibit cytokine induction of NO production and sPLA2 release. Inhibition of NO production by BN50730 corroborated well with the decrease in iNOS protein and mRNA levels as well as binding of NF-kappaB STAT- 1 to DNA, suggesting that BN50730 action is upstream of the transcriptional process. These results are in agreement with the role of intracellular PAF in regulating the cytokine signaling cascade in astrocytes and further suggest the possible use of BN50730 as a therapeutic agent for suppressing the inflammatory pathways elicited by cytokines.
A panel of monoclonal antibodies and conventional antisera directed against desmosomal proteins from bovine muzzle epidermis was used to identify immunologically related proteins from two other bovine stratified squamous epithelia, cornea and esophagus. Desmosome-enriched tissue fractions were prepared from epidermis, cornea, and esophagus. These tissue extracts were electrophoresed on sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gels, blotted onto nitrocellulose paper, and labeled using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique. Labeling with the conventional antisera demonstrates that each of the previously characterized epidermal desmosomal proteins or protein families has an immunologically cross-reacting counterpart in cornea and esophagus. However, chemical differences between homologous desmosomal proteins in these three tissues have also been detected. The corresponding proteins in the different tissues have similar but not always identical apparent molecular weights. Moreover, tissue-restricted antigenic determinants were detected in two of the desmosomal proteins families using four monoclonal antibodies, each of which recognizes a distinct antigenic determinant.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate normal liver stiffness and its influential factors in adults without liver disease using real-time tissue elastography. The liver stiffness threshold value for identifying patients with chronic liver disease was also determined. METHODS: One hundred twenty healthy volunteers were examined with real-time tissue elastography. An integrated quantitative elastographic parameter, defined as the liver fibrosis index, was obtained by tissue dispersion quantitative analysis. Correlations between the liver fibrosis index and age, sex, and body mass index (BMI) were studied. To determine the threshold value for identifying chronic liver disease, 29 patients with chronic hepatitis B who underwent liver biopsy, including patients without fibrosis (fibrosis stage F0; n = 9) and patients with substantial fibrosis (F1-F2; n = 20) were also investigated. A receiver operating characteristic curve analysis for differentiating the F0 from the F1-F2 group was performed. RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the mean liver fibrosis index between sexes or among different age groups. There was a positive correlation between BMI and the liver fibrosis index. The mean liver fibrosis index +/- SD in healthy participants with a normal BMI was 1.31 +/- 0.25. The mean liver fibrosis index values for F0 and F1-F2 patients with a normal BMI were 1.47 +/- 0.24 and 2.44 +/- 0.49, respectively (P < .001). The optimal liver fibrosis index threshold value for discriminating normal liver from noncirrhotic chronic liver disease was 2.12 in participants with a normal BMI. CONCLUSIONS: Liver stiffness determined by real-time tissue elastography in healthy Chinese adults is not affected by age and sex but has a positive correlation with BMI. Real-time tissue elastography for assessment of liver stiffness can also be used for identification of substantial fibrosis in patients with chronic liver disease.
OBJECTIVES: Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) often colonize the anterior nares, and nasal carriage remains the main source of bacterial dissemination. The aim of this study was to assess the in vivo activity of the lantibiotic mersacidin against MRSA colonizing nasal epithelia. METHODS: The efficiency of mersacidin in the eradication of MRSA was tested employing mice pre-treated with hydrocortisone and inoculated intranasally either three or six times with a bacterial suspension. RESULTS: In mersacidin-treated animals, pre-colonized with MRSA, bacteria could not be detected in blood, lungs, liver, kidney, spleen or nasal scrapings and there were no lesions manifested after intraperitoneal drug application. Blood samples from infected mice obtained 2 h after mersacidin therapy revealed anti-MRSA activity in a serum bactericidal test. Moreover, elevated interleukin-1beta and tumour necrosis factor-alpha titres were noticed in the pre-infected but not in cured animals. In contrast, mersacidin did not induce differences in the cytokine profiles of treated uninfected control mice. CONCLUSIONS: In the mouse rhinitis model, mersacidin was able to eradicate MRSA colonization. The site of action (epithelium versus blood) of mersacidin needs to be further explored.
Transforming growth factor-beta activated kinase-1 (TAK1) is an essential regulator in toll-like receptor (TLR), tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) signaling pathways, and plays very important roles in animal innate immunity. TAK1-binding protein, TAB1, can specifically regulate the activation of TAK1. However, the TAB1 gene in amphioxus has not yet been identified to date. In this study, we identified and characterized a TAB1 gene from Branchiostoma belcheri (designed as AmphiTAB1). Our results showed that the full-length cDNA of AmphiTAB1 is 2281bp long with an open reading frame (ORF) of 1659bp that encodes a predicted protein of 553 amino acids containing a typical PP2Cc domain. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the AmphiTAB1 gene was located between invertebrates and vertebrates, suggesting that the AmphiTAB1 gene is a member of the TAB1 gene family. Real-time PCR analysis indicated that the AmphiTAB1 was ubiquitously and differentially expressed in six investigated tissues (gills, hepatic cecum, intestine, muscles, notochord and gonad). After lipopolysaccharide stimulation, the expression of AmphiTAB1 was significantly up-regulated at 6h, which shows that AmphiTAB1 may be involved in the host immune response. In addition, the recombinant TAB1 expressed in vitro shows a molecular mass of 62kDa and Western blot confirmed it, which proved it is an encoding isoform. Taken together, our findings provide an insight into innate immune response of amphioxus and evolution of the TAB1 gene family.
Candida tropicalis is a common species related to nosocomial candidemia and candiduria. Most Candida spp. infections are associated with biofilm formation on implanted medical devices or on host epithelial cell surfaces. Sessile cells display phenotypic traits dramatically different from those of their free-living, planktonic counterparts, such as increased resistance to antimicrobial agents and to host defenses. The characteristics of C. tropicalis biofilm formation in vitro are described. By an XTT-reduction assay, an increase in metabolic activity was observed up to 24 h of biofilm formation, and this activity showed a linear relationship with sessile cell density. Scanning electron microscopy was used to further characterize C. tropicalis biofilms. The initial adherence of yeast cells was followed by germination, microcolony formation, filamentation and maturation at 24-48 h. Mature biofilms consisted of a dense network of yeast cells and filamentous forms of C. tropicalis. Increased resistance of sessile cells against fluconazole and amphotericin B was also demonstrated. Real-time reverse transcription-PCR quantification showed that sessile cells overexpressed ERG11 (coding for lanosterol 14 alpha-demethylase) and MDR1 (coding for an efflux protein belonging to the major facilitator superfamily). These mechanisms may contribute to the fluconazole resistance of the C. tropicalis biofilm.
This study reports on the use of naturally occurring F-specific coliphages, as well as spiked MS-2 phage, to evaluate a land-based effluent treatment/reuse system and an effluent irrigation scheme. Both the natural phages and the spiked MS-2 phage indicated that the effluent treatment/reuse system (FILTER - Filtration and Irrigated cropping for Land Treatment and Effluent Reuse) achieved a reduction in phage levels over the treatment system by one to two log10. FILTER reduced natural F-specific phage numbers from around 10(3) to below 10(2) 100-ml(-1) and the spiked phage from 10(5) to around 10(4) 100-ml(-1) (incoming compared with outgoing water). In the effluent irrigation scheme, phage spiked into the holding ponds dropped from 10(6) to 10(2) 100-ml(-1) after 168 h (with no detectable levels of natural F-specific phage being found prior to spiking). Only low levels of the spiked phage (10(2) gm(-1)) could be recovered from soil irrigated with phage-spiked effluent (at 10(6) phage 100 ml(-1)) or from fruits (around 10(2) phage per fruit) that had direct contact with soil which had been freshly irrigated with the same phage-spiked effluent.
BACKGROUND: A common measure of rehabilitation effectiveness post-stroke is self-selected walking speed, yet individuals may achieve the same speed using different coordination strategies. Asymmetry in the propulsion generated by each leg can provide insight into paretic leg coordination due to its relatively strong correlation with hemiparetic severity. Subjects walking at the same speed can exhibit different propulsion asymmetries, with some subjects relying more on the paretic leg and others on the nonparetic leg. The goal of this study was to assess whether analyzing propulsion asymmetry can help distinguish between improved paretic leg coordination versus nonparetic leg compensation. METHODS: Three-dimensional forward dynamics simulations were developed for two post-stroke hemiparetic subjects walking at identical speeds before/after rehabilitation with opposite changes in propulsion asymmetry. Changes in the individual muscle contributions to forward propulsion were examined. FINDINGS: The major source of increased forward propulsion in both subjects was from the ankle plantarflexors. How they were utilized differed and appears related to changes in propulsion asymmetry. Subject A increased propulsion generated from the paretic plantarflexors, while Subject B increased propulsion generated from the nonparetic plantarflexors. Each subject's strategy to increase speed also included differences in other muscle groups (e.g., hamstrings) that did not appear to be related to propulsion asymmetry. INTERPRETATION: The results of this study highlight how speed cannot be used to elucidate underlying muscle coordination changes following rehabilitation. In contrast, propulsion asymmetry appears to provide insight into changes in plantarflexor output affecting propulsion generation and may be useful in monitoring rehabilitation outcomes.
To date, there has been limited research on manipulation of the estrous cycle in endangered equids. The objectives of this study were to assess the efficacy of using combinations of: (a) oral altrenogest and PGF2alpha, and (b) injectable altrenogest and PGF2alpha for manipulation of ovarian activity in Przewalski's mares. Reproductive cycles were monitored by assessing follicular changes with rectal ultrasound and changes in urinary steroid hormones. In Study 1, five cycling mares were treated with oral altrenogest (n=11 cycles) for 14 days. In Study 2, cycling mares were treated with oral altrenogest for 12 days (n=5 cycles; n=5 mares) or a single injection of biorelease altrenogest (n=10 cycles; n=6 mares). In all study groups, PGF2alpha was given 2 days before cessation of progestagen treatment. In Study 1, mares responded in six of 11 cycles (54%) where treatment occurred with normal ovarian follicular development post hormone therapy. In Study 2, mares responded in four of five (80%, oral altrenogest) and eight of 10 (80%, injectable altrenogest) cycles with the development of an ovulatory follicle. With the use of injectable altrenogest, there was an obvious suppression of urinary estrogens and progetsagens. These results indicate that manipulation of the estrous cycle of Przewalski's mares can be achieved by administering oral (12 days) or injectable form of altrenogest in conjunction with PGF2alpha. Findings in the present study may have long term application for the development of timed artificial insemination as a genetic management tool for this critically endangered equid.
Upstream open reading frames (uORF) are small open reading frames located in the 5' untranslated region (5' utr) of a mature mRNA. We analysed in four strains representing the Trypanosoma cruzi groups Tc I, Tc II, Tc IV and Tc VI the uORF present in 5' utr sequences of four genes: P-type H+-ATPase 1, DEAD/H RNA helicase, casein kinase 1.1 and ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase. A segment in the 5' utr at each of these genes encompassing one or more uORF was PCR amplified and sequenced. An analysis of these sequences reveals that the uORF in T. cruzi show minor variations; however, these nucleotide substitutions mirror the divergence of T. cruzi strains into major groups.
We retrospectively analyzed sleep disturbance symptoms and estimated time in bed from the intake interviews of 399 healthy, non-demented elderly (NDE) and 263 persons with a diagnosis of possible (n = 53) or probable (n = 210) Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our primary objective was to identify what symptoms might underlie an individual's perception of 'sleep problems' and to determine if these were consistent within, and across, our two cohorts. We stratified each cohort according to whether or not they (or their caregiver) indicated that they had a 'sleep problem', and compared the frequency and endorsement rates of each of 21 sleep disturbance symptoms across those who did or did not endorse 'sleep problem'. For less than half of the symptoms in persons with AD, and a quarter of those in NDE, endorsement rates were significantly different depending on whether the reporter (or their sleep partner) did or did not report a sleep problem. Differences in mean frequency ratings between individuals reporting sleep problems relative to those not reporting were observed on 10 symptoms in both cohorts; six of these were the same symptom for both cohorts. When persons with subjective sleep problems in the AD and NDE cohorts were compared, only four of 21 symptoms were endorsed in one and not the other; two symptoms were significantly more frequent in one cohort than the other. Thus, within cohorts, the differences between persons with and without 'sleep problems' were relatively pronounced while the main differences in specific sleep-related symptoms between AD and NDE were not. Observed between-cohort differences appear to be driven by who is reporting, and the high prevalence of daytime sleeping in AD. Within-cohort differences reflect a clear distinction between persons with and without sleep problems, regardless of the reporter.
Many filamentous fungi produce only conidia for dispersal and survival in vitro or in vivo. Here, we show that the developmental regulator WetA and the velvet protein VosA are not only required for conidial maturation but indispensable for conidiation in Beauveria bassiana, a filamentous entomopathogen. Deletion of wetA or vosA resulted in more than 90 % transcriptional depression of brlA and abaA, two activator genes in the central developmental pathway, during the critical period of conidiophore development and conidiation. Consequently, DeltawetA and DeltavosA strains lost 98 % in and 88 % of their conidiation capacities under optimal culture conditions, respectively. The conidia of DeltawetA showed more defective features than those of DeltavosA, including smaller size, lesser density, lower hydrophobicity, and impaired cell walls although intracellular trehalose content decreased more in the aging culture of DeltavosA than of DeltawetA. As a result, conidial sensitivity to cell wall perturbation was elevated in DeltawetA but unaffected in DeltavosA, which produced conidia more sensitive to the oxidant menadione and the wet-heat stress at 45 degrees C. Both deletion mutants showed similar defects in conidial tolerance to high osmolarity or UV-B irradiation but no change in conidial sensitivity to the other oxidant H2O2 or the fungicide carbendazim. Moreover, DeltawetA lost more virulence to Galleria mellonella larvae than DeltavosA. All these phenotypical changes were restored by either wetA or vosA complementation. Taken together, WetA and VosA are indispensable for asexual development and contribute differentially to conidial quality and hence the biological control potential of B. bassiana against insect pests.
Reverse transcription of retroviral genomes is primed by a tRNA annealed to an 18-nucleotide primer binding site. Here, we present a primer complementation system to study molecular interaction of the replication machinery with the primer and primer binding site in vivo. Introduction of eight base substitutions into the primer binding site of a murine leukemia virus-based vector allowed efficient RNA encapsidation but resulted in severely reduced vector replication capacity. Replication was restored upon complementation with a synthetic gene designed to encode a complementary tRNA-like primer, but not with a noncomplementary tRNA-like molecule. The engineered primer was shown to be involved in both the initiation of first-strand synthesis and second-strand transfer. These results provide an in vivo demonstration that the retroviral replication machinery may recognize sequence complementarity rather than actual primer binding site and 3' primer sequences. Use of mutated primer binding site vectors replicating via engineered primers may add additional control features to retroviral gene transfer technology.
The EGFR/PI3K/PTEN/Akt/mTORC pathway plays prominent roles in malignant transformation, prevention of apoptosis, drug resistance, cancer initiating cells (CICs) and metastasis. The expression of this pathway is frequently altered in breast and other cancers due to mutations at or aberrant expression of: HER2, EGFR1, PIK3CA, and PTEN as well as other oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. miRs and epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation are also important events which regulate this pathway. In some breast cancer cases, mutations at certain components of this pathway (e.g., PIK3CA) are associated with a better prognosis than breast cancers lacking these mutations. The expression of this pathway has been associated with CICs and in some cases resistance to therapeutics. We will review the effects of activation of the EGFR/PI3K/PTEN/Akt/mTORC pathway primarily in breast cancer and development of drug resistance. The targeting of this pathway and other interacting pathways will be discussed as well as clinical trials with novel small molecule inhibitors as well as established drugs that are used to treat other diseases. In this manuscript, we will discuss an inducible EGFR model (v-ERB-B:ER) and its effects on cell growth, cell cycle progression, activation of signal transduction pathways, prevention of apoptosis in hematopoietic, breast and prostate cancer models.
Seal finger is an unusual infection in Denmark but is seen quite often in Greenland. A 69 year-old Danish man developed severe infection after cutting his finger on a sea urchin while handling a fishing net. Treatment with beta-lactam antibiotics had no effect. Standard culture from the lesion was negative. A Mycoplasma species was detected by PCR and DNA sequencing and subsequently cultured on special media. Specifically asked about exposure to sea mammals the patient could inform that a dead seal had also been trapped in the fishing net.
In a shotgun proteomics experiment, proteins are the most biologically meaningful output. The success of proteomics studies depends on the ability to accurately and efficiently identify proteins. Many methods have been proposed to facilitate the identification of proteins from peptide identification results. However, the relationship between protein identification and peptide identification has not been thoroughly explained before. In this paper, we devote ourselves to a combinatorial perspective of the protein inference problem. We employ combinatorial mathematics to calculate the conditional protein probabilities (protein probability means the probability that a protein is correctly identified) under three assumptions, which lead to a lower bound, an upper bound, and an empirical estimation of protein probabilities, respectively. The combinatorial perspective enables us to obtain an analytical expression for protein inference. Our method achieves comparable results with ProteinProphet in a more efficient manner in experiments on two data sets of standard protein mixtures and two data sets of real samples. Based on our model, we study the impact of unique peptides and degenerate peptides (degenerate peptides are peptides shared by at least two proteins) on protein probabilities. Meanwhile, we also study the relationship between our model and ProteinProphet. We name our program ProteinInfer. Its Java source code, our supplementary document and experimental results are available at: >http://bioinformatics.ust.hk/proteininfer.
To increase the reliability of forensic age estimations in living adolescents and young adults where there is no legitimation for X-ray examinations, it would be desirable to establish radiation-free imaging methods. In the present study, the ossification stage of the distal femoral epiphysis was determined retrospectively in 166 male and 124 female individuals in the age group 10 to 30 years using 3.0T MRI. When evaluating the ossification stage, a combination of the classifications proposed by Schmeling et al. and by Kellinghaus et al. was used. Within the study population, stages 3b, 3c and 4 did not occur in the male sex before the 14th birthday, although the validity of the results is distinctly limited relative to stage 3b in view of the small number of cases. In females, stages 3c and 4 did not occur before the 14th birthday. Stage 4 did not occur in males before the 18th birthday. Should this result be confirmed in future studies, there would be an additional criterion providing evidence that the age of 18 years has been completed.
OBJECTIVE: Rehabilitation success in cochlear implant patients is influenced by many factors. Influence of different etiologies of deafness on rehabilitation outcome is assessed. METHODS: STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective survey of patients. SETTING: University hospital. Secondary referral center. PATIENTS: One hundred and sixty-three between 1996 and 2008 implanted children (0-18 years, mean 5.17 years). INTERVENTIONS: Evaluation of patients' data: origin of deafness, hearing and speech test results. Access Data Base; Wilcoxon and t-test. RESULTS: Mean follow-up: 65.4 months. Etiology of deafness in children found in 104 cases: 69 (51.9%) suffered from hereditary hearing loss. All children showed improvement in their auditory performance, children with connexin-26 mutation performed significantly best, Usher and CHARGE-syndrome children significantly worst. Post-meningitic and post-septic children developed slower but reached same levels later. DISCUSSION: Primary cause of deafness, among other factors, has a considerable impact on outcome of rehabilitation. This offers possibilities to influence the outcome by etiology-adjusted therapy modules.
Osteoblast L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCC) play important roles in maintaining intracellular homeostasis and influencing multiple cellular processes. In particular, they contribute to the activities and functions of osteoblasts (OBs). In order to study how L-type VDCC modulate calcium ion (Ca(2+)) homeostasis and the expression of osteogenic transcription factors in OBs exposed to fluoride, MC3T3-E1 cells were exposed to a gradient of concentrations of fluoride (0, 2.0, 5.0, 10.0 mg/L) in combination with 10 muM nifedipine, a specific inhibitor of VDCC, for 48 h. We examined messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of Cav1.2, the main subunit of VDCC, and c-fos, c-jun, runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2), osterix (OSX), and intracellular free Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)]i) concentrations in MC3T3-E1 cells. Our results showed that [Ca(2+)]i levels increased in a dose-dependent manner with increase in concentration of fluoride. Meantime, results indicated that lower concentrations of fluoride (less than 5 mg/L, especially 2 mg/L) can lead to high expression of Cav1.2 and enhance osteogenic function, while high concentration of fluoride (10 mg/L) can induce decreased Cav1.2 and osteogenic transcriptional factors in MC3T3E1 cells exposed to fluoride. However, the levels of [Ca(2+)]i, Cav1.2, c-fos, c-jun, Runx2, and OSX induced by fluoride were significantly altered and even reversed in the presence of nifedipine. These results demonstrate that L-type calcium channels play a crucial role in Ca(2+) homeostasis and they affect the expression of osteogenic transcription factors in fluoride-treated osteoblasts.
A significant fraction of internalized transferrin (Tf) concentrates in the endocytic recycling compartment (ERC), which is near the microtubule-organizing center in many cell types. Tf then recycles back to the cell surface. The mechanisms controlling the localization, morphology, and function of the ERC are not fully understood. We examined the relationship of Tf trafficking with microtubules (MTs), specifically the subset of stable, detyrosinated Glu MTs. We found some correlation between the level of stable Glu MTs and the distribution of the ERC; in cells with low levels of Glu MTs concentrated near to the centriole, the ERC was often tightly clustered, whereas in cells with higher levels of Glu MTs throughout the cell, the ERC was more dispersed. The clustered ERC in Chinese hamster ovary cells became dispersed when the level of Glu MTs was increased with taxol treatment. Furthermore, in a temperature-sensitive Chinese hamster ovary cell line (B104-5), the cells had more Glu MTs when the ERC became dispersed at elevated temperature. Microinjecting purified anti-Glu tubulin antibody into B104-5 cells at elevated temperature induced the redistribution of the ERC to a tight cluster. Microinjection of anti-Glu tubulin antibody slowed recycling of Tf to the cell surface without affecting Tf internalization or delivery to the ERC. Similar inhibition of Tf recycling was caused by microinjecting anti-kinesin antibody. These results suggest that stable Glu MTs and kinesin play a role in the organization of the ERC and in facilitating movement of vesicles from the ERC to the cell surface.
A murine model for pulmonary clearance of Moraxella catarrhalis was used to determine whether immunization could enhance clearance of this organism from the lungs. Animals actively immunized with outer membrane vesicles of M. catarrhalis cleared an endobronchial challenge with the homologous strain more quickly than did sham-immunized control animals. Western blot analysis of both this immune mouse serum and rabbit antiserum raised against outer membrane vesicles of M. catarrhalis indicated that antibodies were present to both outer membrane protein and lipooligosaccharide antigens. Passive immunization of mice with the immune rabbit serum resulted in enhanced pulmonary clearance of both homologous and heterologous strains of M. catarrhalis, indicating the involvement of serum antibody in this clearance process and the existence of conserved surface antigens in the two different M. catarrhalis strains. These results suggest that this model system may be useful for the identification of vaccine candidates among the surface antigens of M. catarrhalis.
Maize, sunflower,flax, and spinach differed in the accumulation of Cd when grown on a Cd contaminated soil. This was mainly due to the different Cd net influx, In, that varied among species by a factor of up to 30. The objective of this study was to find possible reasons for the different Cd In by using a mechanistic model. After 14 days of Cd uptake the model calculated only a small Cd depletion at the root surface, e.g. from 0.22 mumol L(-1) down to 0.19 mumol L(-1) for maize and from 0.48 mumol L(-1) down to 0.35 mumol L(-1)for spinach. Even so the model always overestimated the Cd I(n), for spinach by a factor of 1.5 and for maize by a factor of 10. Only simulating a decrease of C(Li) or the root absorbing power, alpha, by 40% to 90% gave an agreement of calculated and measured I(n),. This may be interpreted as that about 40% in the case of spinach and 90% in the case of maize of the Cd in soil solution were not accessible for plant uptake. The high sensitivity to alpha also shows that not the Cd transport to the root but alpha was limiting the step for Cd uptake.
Proteomics technology is based on the vast analytical power for protein/peptide identification and quantification offered by modern mass spectrometry coupled with hyphenated separation techniques such as two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) and micro- or nano-scale multidimensional liquid chromatography. The rapid growth of proteomics field provides an array of new tools for the integration of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) with modern technology and systems biology, and is potentially advancing the progress of modernization and internationalization of TCM. Cho, in this issue of the American Journal of Chinese Medicine, highlights the recent application of 2DE-based and bottom-up proteomics in Chinese medicine research, including the exploration of pharmacological mechanisms of the actions of TCM, the facilitation of herb authentication and identification, and the profiling of protein expression following acupuncture treatment in animal models. Recent development in proteomics has provided further refinement on the analysis of proteins posttranslational modifications as well as quantitative comparison of different proteomes, and enabled the study of proteomes of specific diseases or biological processes under clinically relevant conditions. It is conceivable that the application of technologies developed in proteomics, genomics and metabonomics in the clinical practice and basic research of Chinese medicine will eventually lead to the reconciliation and integration of TCM and contemporary medicine. Chinese medicine is fundamentally a highly personalized medicine; perhaps it is time to embrace the arrival of TCM OMICS era in Chinese medicine research.
Alzheimer patients have increased levels of both the 42 amyloid-beta-peptide (Abeta) and the amyloid binding alcohol dehydrogenase (ABAD), which is an intracellular binding site for Abeta. The overexpression of Abeta and ABAD in transgenic mice has shown that the binding of Abeta to ABAD results in amplified neuronal stress and impairment of learning and memory. From a proteomic analysis of the brains from these animals, we have identified for the first time that the protein endophilin I increases in Alzheimer diseased brain. The increase in endophilin I levels in neurons is linked to an increase in the activation of the stress kinase c-Jun N-terminal kinase with the subsequent death of the neurons. We also demonstrate in living animals that the expression level of endophilin I is an indicator for the interaction of ABAD and Abeta as its expression levels return to normal if this interaction is perturbed. Therefore this identifies endophilin I as a new indicator of the progression of Alzheimer disease.
The hematologic, cytomorphologic, and cytogenetic features of 50 cases of leukemia cutis (LC), occurring in 40 patients, are presented. The patients' ages ranged from 19 to 75 years (mean, 42 years). The primary hematologic diagnoses in these patients included acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia (ANLL), 13 patients; myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), 19 patients; chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 3 patients; chronic granulocytic leukemia, 3 patients; and polycythemia vera, 1 patient. Leukemia cutis developed in one patient without any known prior or subsequent hematologic disorder. The 13 cases of ANLL included French-American-British types M1 (1 case), M2 (5 cases), M3 (1 case), M4 (5 cases), and M5 (1 case). Leukemia cutis preceded blood and/or bone marrow manifestations of leukemia in nine patients with MDS and one with ANLL. The interval from skin biopsy to systemic leukemia ranged from 3 weeks to 20 months (mean, 6 months). In seven patients with MDS and three patients with ANLL, LC occurred concomitantly with leukemic transformation. Only two patients with MDS and LC did not have progression to acute leukemia during the 20 and 24 months they have been observed. Diagnoses other than LC initially were considered in five of the patients. LC was characterized most often by a dense mixed cellular dermal infiltrate that circumscribed vascular and adnexal structures. Nine patients with MDS (47%) and one with ANLL (8%) had complex chromosomal abnormalities in their bone marrow samples at the time of LC. This article reports the occurrence of LC in patients with MDS and suggests that LC is an early manifestation of leukemic transformation in these patients. These results may be important in identifying high-risk patients for early interventional therapy.
Certain 9-anthrone derivatives are useful in treating psoriasis and are also known to be tumor promoters in mouse skin. Their therapeutic use is accompanied by side effects of severe skin inflammation, irritation, and staining. The precise biochemical mechanisms of therapeutic action, tumor promotion, and side effects are presently uncertain, although the corresponding 9-anthron-10-yl radicals have been proposed as important intermediates. In order to gain insight into the possible role of anthrone-derived radicals in mediating the biological effects of these compounds, in the present study free radicals from a number of anthrone derivatives were generated by thermolysis in nonpolar solvents. Hyperfine splitting constants (hfsc) of the radicals were determined by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy. The experimentally determined hfsc's were also compared with spin densities obtained by molecular calculations (MOPAC 6.0). The experimental and theoretical data were found to be consistent in all cases. The formation of 9-anthron-10-yl radicals appears to be a general phenomenon among 9-anthrones regardless of therapeutic or tumor-promoting effectiveness, although there is a trend toward easier radical formation for the more active compounds.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the long term outcomes of transplantation using expanded criteria donors (ECD; donors aged >/= 60 years or aged 50-59 years with vascular comorbidities) and assess the main determinants of its prognosis. DESIGN: Prospective, population based cohort study. SETTING: Four French referral centres. PARTICIPANTS: Consecutive patients who underwent kidney transplantation between January 2004 and January 2011, and were followed up to May 2014. A validation cohort included patients from another four referral centres in France who underwent kidney transplantation between January 2002 and December 2011. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Long term kidney allograft survival, based on systematic assessment of donor, recipient, and transplant clinical characteristics; preimplantation biopsy; and circulating levels of donor specific anti-HLA (human leucocyte antigen) antibody (DSA) at baseline. RESULTS: The study included 6891 patients (2763 in the principal cohort, 4128 in the validation cohort). Of 2763 transplantations performed, 916 (33.2%) used ECD kidneys. Overall, patients receiving ECD transplants had lower allograft survival after seven years than patients receiving transplants from standard criteria donors (SCD; 80% v 88%, P<0.001). Patients receiving ECD transplants who presented with circulating DSA at the time of transplantation had worse allograft survival after seven years than patients receiving ECD kidneys without circulating DSA at transplantation (44% v 85%, P < 0.001). After adjusting for donor, recipient, and transplant characteristics, as well as preimplantation biopsy findings and baseline immunological parameters, the main independent determinants of long term allograft loss were identified as allocation of ECDs (hazard ratio 1.84 (95% confidence interval 1.5 to 2.3); P < 0.001), presence of circulating DSA on the day of transplantation (3.00 (2.3 to 3.9); P < 0.001), and longer cold ischaemia time (> 12 h; 1.53 (1.1 to 2.1); P = 0.011). Recipients of ECD kidneys with circulating DSA showed a 5.6-fold increased risk of graft loss compared with all other transplant therapies (P < 0.001). ECD allograft survival at seven years significantly improved with screening and transplantation in the absence of circulating DSA (P < 0.001) and with shorter (<12 h) cold ischaemia time (P=0.030), respectively. This strategy achieved ECD graft survival comparable to that of patients receiving an SCD transplant overall, translating to a 544.6 allograft life years saved during the nine years of study inclusion time. CONCLUSIONS: Circulating DSA and cold ischaemia time are the main independent determinants of outcome from ECD transplantation. Allocation policies to avoid DSA and reduction of cold ischaemia time to increase efficacy could promote wider implement of ECD transplantation in the context of organ shortage and improve its prognosis.
The diversity and distribution of fungal endophytes in the leaves of four podocarps (Dacrydium cupressinum, Prumnopitys ferruginea, Dacrycarpus dacrydioides, and Podocarpus totara, all Podocarpaceae) and an angiosperm (Kunzea ericoides, Myrtaceae) occurring in close stands were studied. The effects of host species, locality, and season on endophyte assemblages were investigated. Host species was the major factor shaping endophyte assemblages. The spatial separation of sites and seasonal differences played significant but lesser roles. The mycobiota of each host species included both generalist and largely host-specialised fungi. The host-specialists were often observed at low frequencies on some of the other hosts. There was no clear evidence for family-level specialisation across the Podocarpaceae. Of the 17 species found at similar frequencies on several of the podocarp species, 15 were found also on Kunzea. Many of the endophytes isolated appear to represent species of fungi not previously recognised from New Zealand.
A kind of novel uniform monodispersed three-dimensional dendritic mesoporous silica nanospheres (3D-dendritic MSNSs) has been successfully synthesized for the first time. The 3D-dendritic MSNSs can have hierarchical mesostructure with multigenerational, tunable center-radial, and dendritic mesopore channels. The synthesis was carried out in the heterogeneous oil-water biphase stratification reaction system, which allowed the self-assembly of reactants taking place in the oil-water interface for one-pot continuous interfacial growth. The average pore size of each generation for the 3D-dendritic MSNSs can be adjusted from 2.8 to 13 nm independently, which can be controlled by the varied hydrophobic solvents and concentration of silica source in the upper oil phase. The thickness of each generation can be tuned from approximately 5 to 180 nm as desired, which can be controlled by the reaction time and amount of silica source. The biphase stratification approach can also be used to prepare other core-shell and functional mesoporous materials such as Au nanoparticle@3D-dendritic MSNS and Ag nanocube@3D-dendritic MSNS composites. The 3D-dendritic MSNSs show their unique advantage for protein loading and releasing due to their tunable large pore sizes and smart hierarchical mesostructures. The maximum loading capacity of bovine beta-lactoglobulin with 3D-dendritic MSNSs can reach as high as 62.1 wt % due to their large pore volume, and the simulated protein releasing process can be tuned from 24 to 96 h by flexible mesostructures. More importantly, the releasing rates are partly dependent on the hierarchical biodegradation, because the 3D-dendritic MSNSs with larger pore sizes have faster simulated biodegradation rates in simulated body fluid. The most rapid simulated biodegradation can be finished entirely in 24 h, which has been greatly shortened than two weeks for the mesoporous silica reported previously. As the inorganic mesoporous materials, 3D-dendritic MSNSs show excellent biocompatibility, and it would have a hopeful prospect in the clinical applications.
BACKGROUND: An ageing nursing workforce raises questions of recruitment strategies and how to prevent nursing personnel from leaving their jobs. AIM: The aim of this study was to examine factors contributing to the decision to leave nursing care with special reference to work conditions related to nursing care. METHODS: This paper is based on data from a survey of nursing personnel who were employed at various county hospitals in Sweden from 1992 to 1995 (n = 1507). A self-administered questionnaire was used to identify those who had left nursing care voluntarily (n = 158) and to examine factors contributing to their decision to leave. RESULTS: Results showed that unsatisfactory salary contributed most to the nursing personnel's decision to leave, followed by lack of professional opportunities and restricted professional autonomy. CONCLUSION: The fact that nursing personnel leave because of unsatisfactory salary and lack of professional opportunities underpins the importance of making nursing more attractive in terms of financial and professional development. However, the sample size of this study was relatively small and larger studies are thus required to further investigate the importance of these factors in the decision to leave nursing care.
Mammalian cells maintain iron homeostasis by sensing changes in bioavailable iron levels and promoting adaptive responses. FBXL5 is a subunit of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that mediates the stability of iron regulatory protein 2, an important posttranscriptional regulator of several genes involved in iron metabolism. The stability of FBXL5 is regulated in an iron- and oxygen-responsive manner, contingent upon the presence of its N-terminal domain. Here we present the atomic structure of the FBXL5 N terminus, a hemerythrin-like alpha-helical bundle fold not previously observed in mammalian proteins. The core of this domain employs an unusual assortment of amino acids necessary for the assembly and sensing properties of its diiron center. These regulatory features govern the accessibility of a mapped sequence required for proteasomal degradation of FBXL5. Detailed molecular and structural characterization of the ligand-responsive hemerythrin domain provides insights into the mechanisms by which FBXL5 serves as a unique mammalian metabolic sensor.
Many proteins have been proposed as potential biomarkers for breast cancer. Yet, validation of their discriminative value using quantitative methods has scarcely been performed. In this study, we investigated the discriminative value of six peptides that were previously proposed to be generated by breast cancer specific exoproteases: bradykinin, des-Arg(9)-bradykinin, Hyp(3)-bradykinin, and fragments of fibrinogen alpha-chain (Fib-alpha ([605-629])), complement component 4a (C4a ([1337-1350])), and interalpha trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 4 (ITIH4 ([666-687])). Their absolute serum concentrations were measured with a completely validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric assay (LC-MS/MS) and compared between 62 newly diagnosed breast cancer patients and 62 controls matched for age and sample storage duration. Both ITIH4 ([666-687]) and des-Arg(9)-bradykinin showed statistically significantly higher median concentrations in breast cancer samples than in matched control samples. Additionally, we analyzed serum samples collected after surgical removal of the tumor, in which median ITIH4 ([666-687]) and des-Arg(9)-bradykinin concentrations were significantly decreased and not statistically significantly different from concentrations in the controls anymore. In a combined analysis, ITIH4 (666-687]) and des-Arg(9)-bradykinin independently contributed to the discrimination between cases and controls. In this study, we confirmed that the exoprotease breakdown peptides, ITIH4 (666-687]) and des-Arg(9)-bradykinin, differed between breast cancer cases and controls, supporting the potential of degradome markers for the diagnosis of breast cancer.
Paul Vanhoutte is one of the fathers of vascular biology. Among his great contributions, he demonstrated that endothelium modulates vasomotor response to vasoactive products (including serotonin) that are released when platelets aggregate in an artery. He found in arteries ex vivo that when endothelium is dysfunctional, in atherosclerosis or hypertension, normal relaxation to aggregation of platelets is impaired and vessels may contract. He proposed that this mechanism may predispose to vasospasm. The results of our experiments in vivo indicate that atherosclerosis greatly potentiates vasoconstrictor responses to serotonin in the limb, brain, and eye of monkeys. We proposed that transient ischemic attacks may be mediated by platelet-induced vasospasm. We observed endothelial dysfunction in atherosclerotic monkeys, with improvement of endothelial function when hypercholesterolemia was corrected. Recently, we studied the aortic valve, which has unique endothelium, in hypercholesterolemic mice to examine the pathophysiology of aortic valvular stenosis. Oxidative stress is increased in stenotic valves, and severe aortic stenosis develops in about one third of old, hypercholesterolemic mice. In stenotic aortic valves from humans, there is increased oxidative stress near calcified regions of the valves. Oxidative stress may trigger expression of pro-calcific genes in the aortic valve. Finally, we have used gene transfer of extracellular superoxide dismutase (ecSOD) to study endothelial effects of oxidative stress. Gene transfer of normal ecSOD improves endothelial dysfunction in several disease states, but gene transfer of ecSOD(R213G), a gene variant of ecSOD that is common in humans, fails to improve endothelial function. Gene transfer approaches may be useful to study mechanisms by which gene variants predispose to endothelial dysfunction and vascular disease.
Obligate human-pathogenic Neisseria gonorrhoeae expresses numerous variant surface proteins mediating adherence to and invasion of target cells. The invariant major outer membrane porin PorB of serotype A (P.IA) gonococci triggers invasion into Chang cells only if the medium is devoid of phosphate. Since gonococci expressing PorB(IA) are frequently isolated from patients with severe disseminating infections, the interaction initiated by the porin may be of major relevance for the development of this serious disease. Here, we investigated the low-phosphate-dependent invasion and compared it to the well-known pathways of entry initiated by Opa proteins. P.IA-triggered invasion requires clathrin-coated pit formation and the action of actin and Rho GTPases. However, in contrast to Opa-initiated invasion via heparan sulfate proteoglycans, microtubules, acidic sphingomyelinase, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, and myosin light chain kinase are not involved in this entry pathway. Nor are Src kinases required, as they are in invasion, e.g., via the CEACAM3 receptor. Invasion by PorB(IA) occurs in a wide spectrum of cell types, such as primary human epithelial and endothelial cells and in cancer cells of human and animal origin. Low-phosphate-dependent invasion is thus a pathway of gonococcal entry distinct from Opa-mediated invasion.
African great apes are naturally infected by a multitude of Plasmodium species most of them recently discovered, among which several are closely related to human malaria agents. However, it is still unknown whether these animals can serve as source of infections for humans living in their vicinity. To evaluate this possibility, we analysed the nature of Plasmodium infections from a bank of 4281 human blood samples collected in 210 villages of Gabon, Central Africa. Among them, 2255 were detected positive to Plasmodium using molecular methods (Plasmodium Cytochrome b amplification). A high throughput sequencing technology (454 GS-FLX Titanium technology, Roche) was then used to identify the Plasmodium species present within each positive sample. Overall, we identified with confidence only three species infecting humans in Gabon: P. falciparum, P. malariae and P. ovale. None of the species known to infect non-human primates in Central Africa was found. Our study shows that ape Plasmodium parasites of the subgenus Laverania do not constitute a frequent source of infection for humans. It also suggests that some strong host genetic barriers must exist to prevent the cross species transmission of ape Plasmodium in a context of ever increasing contacts between humans and wildlife.
BACKGROUND: Brain edema as a result of secondary injury following traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major clinical concern. Neutrophils are known to cause increased vascular permeability leading to edema formation in peripheral tissue, but their role in the pathology following TBI remains unclear. METHODS: In this study we used controlled cortical impact (CCI) as a model for TBI and investigated the role of neutrophils in the response to injury. The outcome of mice that were depleted of neutrophils using an anti-Gr-1 antibody was compared to that in mice with intact neutrophil count. The effect of neutrophil depletion on blood-brain barrier function was assessed by Evan's blue dye extravasation, and analysis of brain water content was used as a measurement of brain edema formation (24 and 48 hours after CCI). Lesion volume was measured 7 and 14 days after CCI. Immunohistochemistry was used to assess cell death, using a marker for cleaved caspase-3 at 24 hours after injury, and microglial/macrophage activation 7 days after CCI. Data were analyzed using Mann-Whitney test for non-parametric data. RESULTS: Neutrophil depletion did not significantly affect Evan's blue extravasation at any time-point after CCI. However, neutrophil-depleted mice exhibited a decreased water content both at 24 and 48 hours after CCI indicating reduced edema formation. Furthermore, brain tissue loss was attenuated in neutropenic mice at 7 and 14 days after injury. Additionally, these mice had a significantly reduced number of activated microglia/macrophages 7 days after CCI, and of cleaved caspase-3 positive cells 24 h after injury. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that neutrophils are involved in the edema formation, but not the extravasation of large proteins, as well as contributing to cell death and tissue loss following TBI in mice.
The effects of short wave ultraviolet (UV)-induced DNA lesions on the catalytic activity of Drosophila melanogaster topoisomerase II were investigated. The presence of these photoproducts impaired the enzyme's ability to relax negatively supercoiled pBR322 plasmid molecules. As determined by DNA photolyase-catalyzed photoreactivation experiments, enzyme inhibition was due to the presence of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers in the DNA. When 10-20 cyclobutane dimers were present per plasmid, the initial velocity of topoisomerase II-catalyzed DNA relaxation was inhibited approximately 50%. Decreased relaxation activity correlated with an inhibition of the DNA strand passage step of the enzyme's catalytic cycle. In contrast, UV-induced photoproducts did not alter the prestrand passage DNA cleavage/religation equilibrium of topoisomerase II either in the absence or presence of antineoplastic agents. Results of the present study demonstrate that the repair of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers is important for the efficient catalytic function of topoisomerase II.
Currently, there are around 150,000 HIV-infected patients in Spain. This number, together with the fact that this disease is now a chronic condition since the introduction of antiretroviral therapy, has generated an increasing demand on the clinical microbiology laboratories in our hospitals. This increase has occurred not only in the diagnosis and treatment of opportunistic diseases, but also in tests related to the diagnosis and therapeutic management of HIV infection. To meet this demand, the Sociedad de Enfermedades Infecciosas y Microbiologia Clinica (Spanish Society of Infectious Diseases and Clinical Microbiology) has updated its standard Procedure for the microbiological diagnosis of HIV infection. The main advances related to serological diagnosis, plasma viral load, and detection of resistance to antiretroviral drugs are reviewed in this version of the Procedure.
OBJECTIVES: To conduct a descriptive study with an analysis of risk factors for early infection in liver transplant patients, and to determine the resistance of the bacteria involved. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 149 liver transplant recipients. All cases of infection occurring 0-90 days after transplantation were considered early infection. Pre-, intra- and postoperative variables were analyzed, and isolated microorganisms were studied. Selective bowel decontamination with quinolones, and perioperative and antifungal prophylaxis were carried out in all patients. RESULTS: The incidence of infection was 73.1%: bacterial (49.7%), viral (35.5%), fungal (10.1%) and mixed (4.5%). In the first postoperative month the most frequent infections were bacterial and in the second and third months, viral (p = 0.001). Multivariate analysis of risk factors identified the following: days of parenteral nutrition, duration of surgery > 5 hours, rejection and CMV seronegative status. Among 1278 cultures, the following microorganisms were isolated: 77.9% gram-positive cocci (GP) and 19% aerobic gram-negative bacilli (GNB). Sensitivity of Staphylococcus to vancomycin was 99.6-100% and to teicoplanin 97.9-100%. VAN resistance was observed in 1.2% of E. faecalis and 4.5% of E. faecium. Among S. aureus strains, 68.7% were MRSA. The resistance rate of GNB to quinolones was 38.8%. CONCLUSIONS: Incidence of infection was higher the first 30 days after transplantation, with bacterial infection predominating. Duration of surgery > 5 hours was the most important risk factor for acquiring bacterial infection. GP were the most frequently isolated bacteria. Empirical treatment of early bacterial infection should include vancomycin or teicoplanin. Selective bowel decontamination resulted in a low incidence of GNB infections, among which there was 38.8% resistance to quinolones.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present work was to examine adult smokers' awareness of and receptivity to an electronic nicotine delivery system (ENDS) television advert, and whether viewing the advert influenced urge to smoke and intention to try ENDS. METHODS: A television advert for ENDS brand blu eCigs was shown to an online convenience sample of 519 Florida adult smokers. We measured current smokers' awareness of and receptivity to the advert, and whether seeing the advert influenced their thoughts about smoking or quitting, urge to smoke and intention to try ENDS. Results were stratified by prior ENDS use. RESULTS: Approximately 62.3% of current smokers were aware of the advert. Smokers found the advert informative (73.8%), attention grabbing (67.5%) and innovative (64.5%), with prior ENDS users rating the advert more favourably than non-users. Seeing the advert elicited an urge to smoke (mean 42.1, SD=1.9) and thoughts about smoking cigarettes (75.8%) as well as quitting (74.6%). Prior END users were significantly more likely than non-users to report thinking about smoking cigarettes after seeing the advert (P<0.05). Most smokers said ENDS were 'made for people like them' (88.6%) and they would try ENDS in the future (66.0%). CONCLUSIONS: Smokers are receptive to ENDS television adverts and report intention to try ENDS after viewing the advert. Future studies should monitor ENDS advertising and examine how exposure to ENDS adverts influences smokers' use of ENDS, dual use with cigarettes and cessation behaviour.
Immune parameters, haemocyte lifespan, and gene expressions of lipopolysaccharide and beta-glucan-binding protein (LGBP), peroxinectin (PX), integrin beta, and alpha2-macroglobulin (alpha2-M) were examined in white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei juveniles (0.48 +/- 0.05 g) which had been reared at different salinity levels of 2.5 per thousand, 5 per thousand, 15 per thousand, 25 per thousand, and 35 per thousand for 24 weeks. All shrimp survived during the first 6 weeks. The survival rate of shrimp reared at 2.5 per thousand and 5 per thousand was much lower (30%) than that of shrimp reared at 15 per thousand, 25 per thousand, and 35 per thousand (76%~86%) after 24 weeks. Shrimp reared at 25% grew faster. Shrimp reared at 2.5 per thousand and 5 per thousand showed lower hyaline cells (HCs), granular cells (GCs), phenoloxidase activity (PO) activity, respiratory bursts (RBs), superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and lysozyme activity, but showed a longer haemocyte lifespan, and higher expressions of LGBP, PX, integrin beta, and alpha2-M. In another experiment, shrimp which had been reared at different salinity levels for 24 weeks were challenged with Vibrio alginolyticus (6 x 10(6) cfu shrimp(-1)), and WSSV (10(3) copies shrimp(-1)) and then released to their respective seawater. At 96-144 h, cumulative mortalities of shrimp reared at 2.5 per thousand and 5 per thousand were significantly higher than those of shrimp reared at 15 per thousand, 25 per thousand, and 35 per thousand. It was concluded that following long-term exposure to 2.5 per thousand and 5 per thousand seawater, white shrimp juveniles exhibited decreased resistance against a pathogen due to reductions in immune parameters. Increases in the haemocyte lifespan and gene expressions of LGBP, integrin beta, PX, and alpha2-M indicated that shrimp had the ability to expend extra energy to modulate the innate immune system to prevent further perturbations at low salinity levels.
Obesity is a major public health concern affecting an increasing proportion of reproductive-aged women. Avoiding unintended pregnancy is of major importance, given the increased risks associated with pregnancy, but obesity may affect the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives by altering how these drugs are absorbed, distributed, metabolized or eliminated. Limited data suggest that long-acting, reversible contraceptives maintain excellent efficacy in obese women. Some studies demonstrating altered pharmacokinetic parameters and increased failure rates with combined oral contraceptives, the contraceptive patch and emergency contraceptive pills suggest decreased efficacy of these methods. It is unclear whether bariatric surgery affects hormonal contraceptive efficacy. Obese women should be offered the full range of contraceptive options, with counseling that balances the risks and benefits of each method, including the risk of unintended pregnancy.
The high rate of false-positive or misleading results in in vitro mammalian genotoxicity testing is a hurdle in the development of valuable chemicals, especially those used in cosmetics, for which in vivo testing is banned in the European Union. The reconstructed skin micronucleus (RSMN) assay in EpiDerm (MatTek Corporation, USA) has shown promise as a follow-up for positive in vitro mammalian genotoxicity tests. However, few studies have explored its better predictive performance compared with existing in vitro assays. In the present study, we followed the protocol of the RSMN assay and used eight chemicals to compare micronucleus (MN) induction with EpiDerm with that in normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs), both derived from human skin. The assessments of EpiDerm conformed to those of in vivo MN assay, whereas those of NHEKs did not. The effect of cell differentiation status on MN induction was further addressed using a model compound, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), which is a major component of green tea extract that shows positive results in in vitro mammalian genotoxicity assays via oxidative stress and negative results in in vivo MN studies. RSMN assay in an underdeveloped epidermal model, EpiDerm-201 (MatTek Corporation), showed a negative result identical to that in EpiDerm, indicating that the barrier function of keratinocytes has limited impact. Analysis of the gene expression profile of both EpiDerm and NHEKs after EGCG treatment for 12h revealed that the expression of genes related to genotoxic response was significantly induced only in NHEKs. Conversely, antioxidative enzyme activities (catalase and glutathione peroxidase) in EpiDerm were higher than those in NHEKs. These results indicate that EpiDerm has antioxidant properties similar to those of a living body and is capable of eliminating oxidative stress that may be caused by EGCG under in vitro experimental conditions.
Solid-state NMR (SSNMR) is a powerful technique to describe the orientations of membrane proteins and peptides in their native membrane bilayer environments. The deuterium ((2)H) quadrupolar splitting (DQS), one of the SSNMR observables, has been used to characterize the orientations of various single-pass transmembrane (TM) helices using a semistatic rigid-body model such as the geometric analysis of labeled alanine (GALA) method. However, dynamic information of these TM helices, which could be related to important biological function, can be missing or misinterpreted with the semistatic model. We have investigated the orientation of WALP23 in an implicit membrane of dimyristoylglycerophosphocholine by determining an ensemble of structures using multiple conformer models with a DQS restraint potential. When a single conformer is used, the resulting helix orientation (tilt angle (tau) of 5.6 +/- 3.2 degrees and rotation angle (rho) of 141.8 +/- 40.6 degrees ) is similar to that determined by the GALA method. However, as the number of conformers is increased, the tilt angles of WALP23 ensemble structures become larger (26.9 +/- 6.7 degrees ), which agrees well with previous molecular dynamics simulation results. In addition, the ensemble structure distribution shows excellent agreement with the two-dimensional free energy surface as a function of WALP23's tau and rho. These results demonstrate that SSNMR ensemble dynamics provides a means to extract orientational and dynamic information of TM helices from their SSNMR observables and to explain the discrepancy between molecular dynamics simulation and GALA-based interpretation of DQS data.
This observational study compared uptake of infant prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV services pre/post implementation of Option B+ in Lilongwe, Malawi. There were 845 (pre) and 998 (post) births. Post-B+, infants had longer median predelivery maternal antiretroviral therapy {62 days [interquartile range (IQR): 38-94] pre-B+ vs. 95 days [IQR: 61-131] post-B+; P < 0.0001} and improved polymerase chain reaction testing (82.0% vs. 86.5%; P = 0.01) at younger median age [7.6 weeks (IQR: 6.6-10.9) vs. 6.9 (IQR: 6.4-8.1); P < 0.0001]. Proportion testing polymerase chain reaction positive decreased (4.6% vs. 2.6%; P = 0.03). Proportion of HIV-infected infants starting antiretroviral therapy (75% vs. 77.3%) and age at initiation [19.7 weeks (IQR: 15.4-31.1) vs. 16 (IQR: 13.3-17.9)] remained unchanged. These findings suggest modest improvements in infant care with Option B+.
Elucidation of the pathogenesis of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and the introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) has transformed this disease from being invariably fatal to being the type of leukemia with the best prognosis. Median survival associated with CML is estimated at > 20 years. Nevertheless, blast crisis occurs at an incidence of 1%-2% per year, and once this has occurred, treatment options are limited and survival is short. Due to the overall therapeutic success, the prevalence of CML is gradually increasing. The optimal management of this disease includes access to modern therapies and standardized surveillance methods for all patients, which will certainly create challenges. Furthermore, all available TKIs show mild but frequent side effects that may require symptomatic therapy. Adherence to therapy is the key prerequisite for efficacy of the drugs and for long-term success. Comprehensive information on the nature of the disease and the need for the continuous treatment using the appropriate dosages and timely information on efficacy data are key factors for optimal compliance. Standardized laboratory methods are required to provide optimal surveillance according to current recommendations. CML occurs in all age groups. Despite a median age of 55-60 years, particular challenges are the management of the disease in children, young women with the wish to get pregnant, and older patients. The main challenges in the long-term management of CML patients are discussed in this review.
BACKGROUND: The extent of prescription opioid abuse has led to the development of formulations that are difficult to crush. The purpose of the present studies was to examine whether experienced prescription opioid abusers (individuals using prescription opioids for non-medical purposes regardless of how they were obtained) were able to prepare a formulation of oxymorphone hydrochloride ER 40 mg designed to be crush-resistant (DCR) for intranasal (study 1) or intravenous abuse (study 2), utilizing a non-crush-resistant formulation of oxymorphone (40 mg; OXM) as a positive control. METHODS: No drug was administered in these studies. Participants were provided with DCR and OXM tablets in random order and asked to prepare them for abuse with tools/solutions that they had previously requested. The primary outcome for study 1 was particle size distribution, and the primary outcome for study 2 was percent yield of active drug in the extracts. Other descriptive variables were examined to better understand potential responses to these formulations. RESULTS: Fewer DCR than OXM particles were smaller than 1.705 mm (9.8% vs. 97.7%), and thus appropriate for analyses. Percent yield of active drug in extract was low and did not differ between the two formulations (DCR: 1.95%; OXM: 1.29%). Most participants were not willing to snort (92%) or inject (84%) the tampered products. Participants indicated that they found less relative value in the DCR than the OXM formulation across both studies. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the oxymorphone DCR formulations may be a promising technology for reducing opioid abuse.
Stress is considered to be one of the major triggers to drug relapse, even after prolonged periods of abstinence. In rats, the activation of stress-related brain systems, including corticotropin-releasing factor and norepinephrine, is critical for stress-induced reinstatement of extinguished drug seeking, an animal model for drug relapse. In addition, there are strong indications that activation of the endogenous opioid system is important for the effects of stress on drug seeking. More specifically, activation of the dynorphin/kappa opioid receptor (KOR) system is critically involved in the reinstatement of cocaine seeking following exposure to stressors, such as footshock, forced swimming or social stress. However, studies on the role of the dynorphin/KOR system in stress-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking are scarce. Here, rats were trained to self-administer heroin (0.1 mg/kg/infusion) for 10 days. Drug seeking was then extinguished and the rats were tested for acute (21 hours) food deprivation-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. In two separate experiments, rats were injected with the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) antagonist, naltrexone (0.0, 1.0, 10.0 mg/kg; s.c.) or the KOR antagonist, norBNI (0.0, 1.0, 10.0 mg/kg; i.p.) before the reinstatement test. Naltrexone treatment did not affect stress-induced reinstatement. In contrast, treatment with norBNI dose-dependently attenuated food deprivation-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. These results support the hypothesis that activation of KOR, but not MOR, is critically involved in stress-induced reinstatement of drug seeking.
Conventional monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapeutics interfering with cellular signaling of their respective target antigens are frequently limited in their ability to induce significant anti-tumor activities when administered as single agents in patients with solid tumors. To overcome these limitations, several new technologies are being developed to empower biotherapeutics and to improve their anti-tumor activities, while maintaining their high tumor selectivity and superior safety profiles. The various efficacy enhancement technologies developed for mAbs can be divided broadly into two categories: First, technologies that improve the intrinsic anti-tumor activities of conventional immunoglobulin mAb formats, including the enhancement of effector cell functions and modulations of target binding properties, including interference with multiple signaling pathways. The second category of empowered biologics combines complementary anti-tumor modalities independent of the IgG format, including antibody drug conjugates (ADCs). In addition, bispecific compounds designed to recruit different subsets of inflammatory cells to the tumor environment, also belong to the mechanistic complementation strategy. This approach termed redirected immune cell killing, belongs to one the most promising new biotherapeutic platforms developed in oncology. Over 20 bispecific compounds are currently being developed pre-clinically, and several compounds are undergoing early stage clinical trials. In this report, we review the progress made in the development of bispecific biotherapeutics in the context of ADCs, redirected T- and B-cell killing and targeting of multiple signaling pathways. We also discuss the status of the clinical development of this class of compounds in oncology and the promises and challenges this field is currently facing.
Epidemiological studies and clinical trials of vaccines depend on the accurate measurement of antibodies within the polyclonal response to infection or vaccination. The assay currently used to measure the antibody response to vaccination with GARDASIL [Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Recombinant Vaccine]--a quadrivalent vaccine used against human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16, and 18--is a competitive Luminex assay (cLIA) that uses multiplex technology to detect type-specific neutralizing antibodies against all four HPV types in a single serum sample. Here we describe how the cLIA was developed, as well as how the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), used as competitors in the assay, were characterized. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to screen eight previously-identified mAbs for their ability to bind to HPV virus-like particles (VLPs) in a type-specific and conformation-dependent manner. Four of these mAbs, H6.M48, K11.B2, H16.V5, and H18.J4, met our specifications and were shown to have the potential to neutralize HPV infection in hemagglutination inhibition and pseudovirus neutralization assays. The competitive immunoassay format was able to distinguish type-specific antibodies in the sera of nonhuman primates vaccinated with HPV VLPs, whereas a traditional direct-bind ELISA could not. In addition, the serum antibodies measured by the competitive assay are known to be neutralizing, whereas the ELISA does not distinguish neutralizing and nonneutralizing antibodies in a serum sample. By detecting antibodies to neutralizing epitopes, the competitive assay both demonstrates sero-conversion and provides a potential functional link between sero-conversion and protective immunity in response to vaccination with GARDASIL.
This is the first article of a two-part professional development series addressing genetic counseling for personal and family histories of psychiatric disorders. It is based on an Educational Breakout Session presented by the Psychiatric Special Interest Group of the National Society of Genetic Counselors at the 2006 Annual Education Conference. This article examines issues that arise in addressing family histories of psychiatric illness, while the second article in the series considers the generation and provision of individualized recurrence risks for psychiatric disorders. In this article we discuss the importance of managing uncertainty for affected individuals and their close family members who have been referred to genetics for a number of different indications. We then use four simulated cases to make recommendations about the scope and timing of discussions related to the psychiatric family history.
Although several host factors have been identified to influence the course of HCMV infection, it still remains unclear why in AIDS patients without highly active antiretroviral therapy human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) retinitis is one of the most common opportunistic infections, whereas in other immunosuppressed individuals it has a low incidence. It was suggested that HCMV glycoprotein B strains may be suitable as marker for virulence and HCMV retinitis. Moreover, UL144 ORF, a member of the TNF-alpha receptor superfamily, may play a crucial role in innate defences and adaptive immune response of HCMV infection. Furthermore, sequence analyses of HCMV genes UL128, UL130, and UL131A as major determinants of virus entry and replication in epithelial and other cell types were performed. To evaluate the association of sequence variability of depicted viral genes with HCMV retinitis and in vitro growth properties in retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) and human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF), we compared 14 HCMV isolates obtained from vitreous fluid and urine of AIDS patients with clinically proven HCMV retinitis. Isolates were analyzed by PCR cycle sequencing and phylogenetic analysis. In addition, sequences of HCMV strains AF1, U8, U11, VR1814, and its cell culture adapted derivates were included. Sequence analysis of gB yielded three genetic subtypes (gB type 1 (5 isolates), gB type 2 (12 isolates), and gB type 3 (5 Isolates)), whereas sequence analysis of UL144 showed a greater diversity (7 isolates type 1A, 2 isolates type 1C, 7 isolates type 2, and 3 isolates type 3). In contrast, the UL128, UL130, and UL131A genes of all low-passage isolates were highly conserved and showed no preferential clustering. Moreover, in HFF and RPE cells, all of our HCMV isolates replicated efficiently independently of their genetic subtype. In conclusion, beside a possible link between the gB subtype 2 and HCMV retinitis, our study found no direct evidence for a connection between UL144/UL128/UL130/UL131A genotypes and the incidence of HCMV retinitis in AIDS patients.
TRAIL (tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand) holds promise as an anti-cancer therapeutic but efficiently induces apoptosis in only a subset of tumor cell lines. Moreover, even in clonal populations of responsive lines, only a fraction of cells dies in response to TRAIL and individual cells exhibit cell-to-cell variability in the timing of cell death. Fractional killing in these cell populations appears to arise not from genetic differences among cells but rather from differences in gene expression states, fluctuations in protein levels and the extent to which TRAIL-induced death or survival pathways become activated. In this study, we ask how cell-to-cell variability manifests in cell types with different sensitivities to TRAIL, as well as how it changes when cells are exposed to combinations of drugs. We show that individual cells that survive treatment with TRAIL can regenerate the sensitivity and death-time distribution of the parental population, demonstrating that fractional killing is a stable property of cell populations. We also show that cell-to-cell variability in the timing and probability of apoptosis in response to treatment can be tuned using combinations of drugs that together increase apoptotic sensitivity compared to treatment with one drug alone. In the case of TRAIL, modulation of cell-to-cell variability by co-drugging appears to involve a reduction in the threshold for mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization.
Lactose repressor protein, regulator of lac enzyme expression in Escherichia coli, maintains its structure and function at extremely low protein concentrations (<10(-)12 M). To examine the unfolding and dissociation of this tetrameric protein, structural transitions in the presence of varying concentrations of urea were monitored by fluorescence and circular dichroism spectroscopy, analytical ultracentrifugation, and functional activities. The spectroscopic data demonstrated a single cooperative transition with no evidence of folded dimeric or monomeric species of this protein. These spectroscopic transitions were reversible provided a long incubation step was employed in the refolding reaction at approximately 3 M urea. The refolded repressor protein possessed the same functional and structural properties as wild-type repressor protein. The absence of concentration dependence expected for tetramer dissociation to unfolded monomer (M4 <--> 4U) in the spectral transitions indicates that the disruption of the monomer-monomer interface and monomer unfolding are a concerted reaction (M4 <--> U4) that may occur prior to the dissociation of the dimer-dimer interface. Thus, we propose that the unfolded monomers remain associated at the C-terminus by the 4-helical coiled-coil structure that forms the dimer-dimer interface and that this intermediate is the end point detected in the spectral transitions. Efforts to confirm the existence of this species by ultracentrifugation were inhibited by the aggregation of this intermediate. Based upon these observations, the wild-type fluorescence and CD data were fit to a model, M4 <--> U4, which resulted in an overall DeltaG degrees for unfolding of 40 kcal/mol. Using a mutant protein, K84L, in which the monomer-monomer interface is stabilized, sedimentation equilibrium results demonstrated that the dimer-dimer interface of lac repressor could persist at higher levels of urea than the monomer-monomer interface. The tetramer-dimer transition monitored using this mutant repressor yields a DeltaG degrees of 20.4 kcal/mol. Using this free energy value for the dissociation process of U4 <--> 4U, an overall free energy change of approximately 60 kcal/mol was calculated for dissociation of all interfaces and unfolding of the tetrameric lac repressor, reflecting the exceptional stability of this protein.
BACKGROUND: Ethical issues are a critical consideration in the design and conduct of clinical research. SUMMARY OF REVIEW: A number of completed trials of proposed stroke treatments raise classical ethical issues in challenging ways. The combination of acutely ill and vulnerable patients, the use of potentially toxic drugs, and very short time frames for decision making and drug administration demand an especially careful evaluation of risk and benefit, the process of consent, and the permissible treatment of control patients. CONCLUSIONS: The study of acute stroke treatments may require more complex safeguards than other neuroclinical trials.
Cbfa1/Runx2 is a transcription factor essential for bone formation and osteoblast differentiation. Two major N-terminal isoforms of Cbfa1, designated type I/p56 (PEBP2aA1, starting with the sequence MRIPV) and type II/p57 (til-1, starting with the sequence MASNS), each regulated by distinct promoters, are known. Here, we show that the type I transcript is constitutively expressed in nonosseous mesenchymal tissues and in osteoblast progenitor cells. Cbfa1 type I isoform expression does not change with the differentiation status of the cells. In contrast, the type II transcript is increased during differentiation of primary osteoblasts and is induced in osteoprogenitors and in premyoblast C2C12 cells in response to bone morphogenetic protein-2. The functional equivalence of the two isoforms in activation and repression of bone-specific genes indicates overlapping functional roles. The presence of the ubiquitous type I isoform in nonosseous cells and before bone morphogenetic protein-2 induced expression of the type II isoform suggests a regulatory role for Cbfa1 type I in early stages of mesenchymal cell development, whereas type II is necessary for osteogenesis and maintenance of the osteoblast phenotype. Our data indicate that Cbfa1 function is regulated by transcription, cellular protein levels, and DNA binding activity during osteoblast differentiation. Taken together, our studies suggest that developmental timing and cell type- specific expression of type I and type II Cbfa isoforms, and not necessarily molecular properties or sequences that reside in the N-terminus of Cbfa1, are the principal determinants of the osteogenic activity of Cbfa1.
We report here on a 6-year-old boy referred to the laboratory for karyotyping and SHOX microdeletion testing. The most significant clinical findings in this boy were small stature, Madelung deformity, facial dysmorphism, mild mental retardation and behavioral problems. R-, G- and RTBG-banding chromosome analysis showed a normal male karyotype. Fine molecular characterization, by FISH, of terminal Xp microdeletion revealed an associated partial duplication. Further refinement of the molecular analysis indicated an inverted duplication of the Xp22.31-Xp22.32 (13.7 Mb) region including the STS, VCX-A and KAL1 genes, associated with a terminal Xp deletion Xp22.33-Xpter (3.6 Mb) encompassing the SHOX and ARSE genes. Such rearrangements have been characterized for other chromosomal pairs, but this is the first reported male patient involving the short arm of the X chromosome. Molecular analysis of the maternal and patient's microsatellite markers showed interchromatid mispairing leading to non-allelic homologous recombination to be the most likely mechanism underlying this rearrangement. This case highlights the importance of clinically driven FISH investigations in order to uncover cryptic micro-rearrangements.
Hidradenitis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease with recurrent nodules, tunnels, scarring and suppuration of intertrigious areas. Hospital-treated HS patients have an increased risk of metabolic syndrome and a wide array of co-morbidities that possibly are related to systemic inflammation. Neutrophile to lymphocyte ratio has been suggested as a marker of systemic inflammation. Studies of psoriasis patients have found their neutrophile to lymphocyte ratio to be increased. In this study, routine blood samples collected during control visits from 50 HS patients are examined, and compared to routine blood samples from 250 age- and sex-matched dermatological outpatients. The neutrophile to lymphocyte ratio does not appear to be increased in HS patients as seen in psoriasis patients, but CRP was found to be higher in HS patients, indicating systemic inflammation. However, N/L ratio was positively correlated to Hurley stage (p < 0.006). The inflammatory biochemical markers for HS patients appear to differ from psoriasis patients and other non-HS dermatological patients; however, a larger study with healthy controls is warranted to further explore the characteristics of inflammatory markers in HS.
To investigate the prevalence and assess the zoonotic transmission burden of Cryptosporidium species in domestic pigeons in Guangdong Province, Southern China, 244 fecal samples were collected from four pigeon breeding farms between June 2012 and March 2013. Cryptosporidium oocysts were purified by Sheather's sugar flotation technique and characterized by DNA sequencing of small subunit ribosomal RNA (SSU rRNA) gene. Cryptosporidium species were determined by comparison of sequences with corresponding Cryptosporidium sequences in GenBank and phylogenetic analysis using neighbor-joining (NJ) in MEGA5.2. The overall prevalence of Cryptosporidium infection in domestic pigeons in Guangdong Province was 0.82% (2/244). Two Cryptosporidium species, namely Cryptosporidium baileyi and Cryptosporidium meleagridis, were identified in Huizhou and Chaozhou farm, respectively. These findings confirmed the existence of C. meleagridis infection in domestic pigeons in China for the first time and provided base-line information for further studies to evaluate the public health risk from pigeon to human.
Serotonergic synaptic inputs to cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei were examined with pre-embedding dual-label immunoelectron microscopy. Numerous serotonin-immunoreactive axon terminals visualized with a silver-enhanced immunogold method were present in both of these tegmental nuclei. Serotonergic terminals occasionally made synaptic contacts with the soma and proximal dendrites of cholinergic tegmental neurons labelled with a choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive peroxidase-anti-peroxidase diaminobenzidine reaction product. In the rostralmost region of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, a few serotonergic neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus were interspersed among cholinergic neurons. Some dendrites of these serotonergic neurons appeared to contain synaptic vesicles. Both myelinated and unmyelinated serotonergic axons were present in the mesopontine tegmentum. The presence of serotonergic synapses onto tegmental cholinergic neurons is consistent with previous behavioral and electrophysiological findings suggesting an inhibitory role of serotonin in the induction of rapid eye movement sleep and its phenomenology through an action on cholinergic neurons in the mesopontine tegmentum.
Weekly monitoring of forensically important flight-active blow flies (Diptera: Calliphoridae) and flesh flies (Diptera: Sarcophagidae) was performed using small baited traps. Sampling took place in two rural, one suburban and two urban habitats in and around Frankfurt (Main), Germany, lasting two years and eight months. Highest values for species richness and Chao-Shen entropy estimator for Shannon's index in both families were found at the urban sites, peaking during summer. Space-time interaction was tested and found to be significant, demonstrating the value of a statistical approach recently developed for community surveys in ecology. K-means partitioning and analysis of indicator species gave significant temporal and habitat associations of particular taxa. Calliphora vicina was an indicator species for lower temperatures without being associated with a particular habitat. Lucilia sericata was an indicator for urban sites, whereas Lucilia ampullacea and Lucilia caesar were indicators for rural sites, supplemented by the less frequent species Calliphora vomitoria. Sarcophagidae were observed during a clearly shorter period of year. Sarcophaga subvicina+Sarcophaga variegata was found to be an indicator for urban habitats during summer as well as Sarcophaga albiceps for rural habitats. A significant association of Sarcophaga caerulescens to rural habitats as well as one of Sarcophaga similis to urban habitats was observed.
Hematologic malignancies are frequently associated with cardiac pathologies. Mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (IDH1/2) occur in a subset of acute myeloid leukemia patients, causing metabolic and epigenetic derangements. We have now discovered that altered metabolism in leukemic cells has a profound effect on cardiac metabolism. Combining mathematical modeling and in vivo as well as ex vivo studies, we found that increased amounts of the oncometabolite d-2-hydroxyglutarate (D2-HG), produced by IDH2 mutant leukemic cells, cause contractile dysfunction in the heart. This contractile dysfunction is associated with impaired oxidative decarboxylation of alpha-ketoglutarate, a redirection of Krebs cycle intermediates, and increased ATP citrate lyase (ACL) activity. Increased availability of D2-HG also leads to altered histone methylation and acetylation in the heart. We propose that D2-HG promotes cardiac dysfunction by impairing alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and induces histone modifications in an ACL-dependent manner. Collectively, our results highlight the impact of cancer cell metabolism on function and metabolism of the heart.
Conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy has not provided clinical benefit or prolonged survival for patients with advanced HCC. This review summarizes the results of prospective clinical trials of several categories of systemic therapy, with emphasis on the more promising results from recent trials of biologically targeted therapeutic agents in HCC.
The BCCM/IHEM Biomedical Fungi/Yeasts collection hosts 1200 Candida albicans strains of the Vanbreuseghem mycotheque isolated between 1951 and 1997. From this collection, 469 freeze-dried C. albicans strains, producing chlamydospores, germ tubes and forming green colonies on CHROMagar, all isolated before 1990, were screened to identify the Candida dubliniensis isolates. Screening was performed in different steps using the growth at 45 degrees C, the assimilation of xylose, the intracellular beta-glucosidase activity test and C. dubliniensis-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primers from ACT1 intron sequence. Five isolates (1%) were identified as C. dubliniensis: one isolate was not documented, the others were of oropharyngeal origin of which two (1987 and 1990) were from proven human immunodeficiency virus patients.
Venous thromboembolism (including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) and atrial fibrillation are common conditions in Western countries. The mainstay of treatment and prevention for these diseases is fast-acting anticoagulant drugs such as heparins and vitamin K antagonists. The use of these drugs is, however, complex and demanding for both patients and physicians. Recently, new antithrombotic drugs that act directly by inhibiting activated coagulation factors such as factor X or thrombin have been developed and investigated in phase III clinical trials. The aim of this article is to review: (i) the need to develop new drugs; (ii) their efficacy/safety as demonstrated in clinical trials; (iii) the need for laboratory monitoring and (iv) the direction towards the use of these new drugs in the real-life clinical situation.
Despite nutrient-depleted conditions, coral reef waters harbor abundant and diverse microbes; as major agents of microbial mortality, viruses are likely to influence microbial processes in these ecosystems. However, little is known about marine viruses in these rapidly changing ecosystems. Here we examined spatial and short-term temporal variability in marine viral abundance (VA) and viral lytic activity across various reef habitats surrounding Moorea Island (French Polynesia) in the South Pacific. Water samples were collected along four regional cross-reef transects and during a time-series in Opunohu Bay. Results revealed high VA (range: 5.6 x 10(6)-3.6 x 10(7) viruses ml(-1)) and lytic viral production (range: 1.5 x 10(9)-9.2 x 10(10) viruses l(-1) d(-1)). Flow cytometry revealed that viral assemblages were composed of three subsets that each displayed distinct spatiotemporal relationships with nutrient concentrations and autotrophic and heterotrophic microbial abundances. The results highlight dynamic shifts in viral community structure and imply that each of these three subsets is ecologically important and likely to infect distinct microbial hosts in reef waters. Based on viral-reduction approach, we estimate that lytic viruses were responsible for the removal of ca. 24-367% of bacterial standing stock d(-1) and the release of ca. 1.0-62 mug of organic carbon l(-1) d(-1) in reef waters. Overall, this work demonstrates the highly dynamic distribution of viruses and their critical roles in controlling microbial mortality and nutrient cycling in coral reef water ecosystems.
A t(X;10)(q22;q23.2) translocation was detected as the only chromosomal aberration in primary short-term cultured cells from an angiomyoma of a 58-year-old woman; 6p, 13q, and 21q rearrangements have been previously demonstrated by others in two cases of angiomyoma. This type of translocation has not been reported in other benign tumors including leiomyomas and angiomyomas, although it has been detected in an ependymoma. This is thought to be a third case of angiomyoma showing karyotypic abnormalities.
Currently, there is no tool for typing Rickettsia prowazekii, the causative agent of epidemic typhus, currently considered a potential bioterrorism agent, at the strain level. To test if the multispacer typing (MST) method could differentiate strains of R. prowazekii, we amplified and sequenced the 25 most variable intergenic spacers between the R. prowazekii and R. conorii genomes in five strains and 10 body louse amplicons of R. prowazekii from various geographic origins. Two intergenic spacers, i.e., rpmE/tRNA(fMet) and serS/virB4, were variable among tested R. prowazekii isolates and allowed identification of three and two genotypes, respectively. When the genotypes obtained from the two spacers were combined, we identified four different genotypes. MST demonstrated that several R. prowazekii strains circulated in human body lice during an outbreak of epidemic typhus in Burundi. This may help to discriminate between natural and intentional outbreaks. Our study supports the usefulness of MST as a versatile method for rickettsial strain genotyping.
The protein kinase PKR and the 2',5'-oligoadenylate (2-5A) synthetase are two interferon-induced and double-stranded RNA-activated enzymes which are implicated in the mechanism of action of interferon. Their distribution was undertaken here at the ultrastructural level by the immunogold procedure, following the use of specific monoclonal antibodies directed against PKR and 69- and 100-kDa forms of the 2-5A synthetase. These enzymes were detected as a pool of nonaggregated proteins scattered throughout the cell and as aggregates often associated with electron-dense doughnut-like structures showing a similar aspect whatever their subcellular localization: the cytoplasm, the nuclear envelope, and the nucleus. In general, the 2-5A synthetases were present in much more lower amounts than the PKR, probably due to the difficulty of detecting traces of proteins by electron microscopy. To circumvent this, we used a human lymphoblastoid cell line overexpressing the 69-kDa form of the 2-5A synthetase. In such cells, the synthetase was then clearly observed in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus; isolated or small clusters of gold particles were numerous in the cell mainly over the RNP fibrils of the interchromatin space, nucleolus, and ribosomes. Interestingly, gold particles were also found to be associated with the membranes of nuclear envelope and rough endoplasmic reticulum probably due to the myristilated motif of this form of 2-5A synthetase. Finally, intensely labeled electron-opaque dots sometimes associated with the nuclear pore complexes were present in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm of cells which might suggest their transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm or reciprocally through the nuclear pore complexes. These observations indicate the wider distribution of the dsRNA-activated enzymes in the cell, thus pointing out their potential implication in as yet undetermined physiological function(s) necessary for various cellular metabolic reactions.
(Na,K)-ATPase, the enzyme responsible for active transport of Na and K across the plasma membranes of animal cells, consists of a catalytic subunit (alpha) and a glycoprotein subunit (beta) with unknown function. We have determined the distance between fluorescent probes directed to specific sites on the alpha- and beta-subunits and ligand-induced changes in the fluorescence of a probe specifically attached to the beta-subunit. The cardiac glycoside site on the alpha-subunit was labeled with anthroylouabain [Fortes, P. A. G. (1977) Biochemistry 16, 531-540]. The oligosaccharides on the beta-subunit were labeled with lucifer yellow carbohydrazide [Lee, J. A., & Fortes, P. A. G. (1985) Biochemistry 24, 322-330]. Resonance energy transfer from anthroylouabain to lucifer yellow was measured by steady-state and time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy. The distance between these probes was determined from the efficiency of energy transfer. The average distance between anthroylouabain and lucifer yellow was 47 A and was independent of the number of acceptor molecules attached to the beta-subunit. The measured distance corresponds to the distance between the cardiac glycoside site and the center of the labeled oligosaccharides on the beta-subunit within one alpha beta dimer. The distance was the same (47 A) when anthroylouabain was bound with ATP or Pi as phosphorylating ligands but increased to 49 A in the presence of vanadate. The change in average distance provides quantitative evidence of a conformational difference between the complexes of cardiac glycosides with (Na,K)-ATPase induced by phosphorylating ligands or by vanadate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Transcription factor access to regulatory elements is prevented by the nucleosome. Heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) is a winged helix transcription factor that plays roles in control and stressed conditions by gaining access to target elements, but mechanisms of HSF1 access are not well known in mammalian cells. Here, we show the physical interaction between the wing motif of human HSF1 and replication protein A (RPA), which is involved in DNA metabolism. Depletion of RPA1 abolishes HSF1 access to the promoter of HSP70 in unstressed condition and delays its rapid activation in response to heat shock. The HSF1-RPA complex leads to preloading of RNA polymerase II and opens the chromatin structure by recruiting a histone chaperone, FACT. Furthermore, this interaction is required for melanoma cell proliferation. These results provide a mechanism of constitutive HSF1 access to nucleosomal DNA, which is important for both basal and inducible gene expression.
The Arabidopsis thaliana chloroplast protein ACCELERATED CELL DEATH2 (ACD2) modulates the amount of programmed cell death (PCD) triggered by Pseudomonas syringae and protoporphyrin IX (PPIX) treatment. In vitro, ACD2 can reduce red chlorophyll catabolite, a chlorophyll derivative. We find that ACD2 shields root protoplasts that lack chlorophyll from light- and PPIX-induced PCD. Thus, chlorophyll catabolism is not obligatory for ACD2 anti-PCD function. Upon P. syringae infection, ACD2 levels and localization change in cells undergoing PCD and in their close neighbors. Thus, ACD2 shifts from being largely in chloroplasts to partitioning to chloroplasts, mitochondria, and, to a small extent, cytosol. ACD2 protects cells from PCD that requires the early mitochondrial oxidative burst. Later, the chloroplasts of dying cells generate NO, which only slightly affects cell viability. Finally, the mitochondria in dying cells have dramatically altered movements and cellular distribution. Overproduction of both ACD2 (localized to mitochondria and chloroplasts) and ascorbate peroxidase (localized to chloroplasts) greatly reduces P. syringae-induced PCD, suggesting a pro-PCD role for mitochondrial and chloroplast events. During infection, ACD2 may bind to and/or reduce PCD-inducing porphyrin-related molecules in mitochondria and possibly chloroplasts that generate reactive oxygen species, cause altered organelle behavior, and activate a cascade of PCD-inducing events.
AIM: The aim of this study was to understand the heart transplantation experience based on patients' descriptions. BACKGROUND: To patients with heart failure, heart transplantation represents a possibility to survive and improve their quality of life. Studies have shown that more quality of life is related to patients' increasing awareness and participation in the work of the healthcare team in the post-transplantation period. Deficient relationships between patients and healthcare providers result in lower compliance with the postoperative regimen. METHOD: A phenomenological approach was used to interview 26 patients who were heart transplant recipients. Patients were interviewed individually and asked this single question: What does the experience of being heart transplanted mean? Participants' descriptions were analysed using phenomenological reduction, analysis and interpretation. RESULTS: Three categories emerged from data analysis: (i) the time lived by the heart recipient; (ii) donors, family and caregivers and (iii) reflections on the experience lived. Living after heart transplant means living in a complex situation: recipients are confronted with lifelong immunosuppressive therapy associated with many side-effects. Some felt healthy whereas others reported persistence of complications as well as the onset of other pathologies. However, all participants celebrated an improvement in quality of life. Health caregivers, their social and family support had been essential for their struggle. Participants realised that life after heart transplantation was a continuing process demanding support and structured follow-up for the rest of their lives. CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that each individual has unique experiences of the heart transplantation process. To go on living participants had to accept changes and adapt: to the organ change, to complications resulting from rejection of the organ, to lots of pills and food restrictions. RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Stimulating a heart transplant patients spontaneous expression about what they are experiencing and granting them the actual status of the main character in their own story is important to their care.
Random or stochastic monoallelic expressed genes (StMA genes) represent a unique form of monoallelic expression where allelic choice is made at random early in development. The consequential clonal diversity provides opportunity for functional heterozygosity in tissues such as the brain, and can impact on both development and disease. We investigate the relationship of StMA expressed genes previously identified in clonal neural stem cells with the neurodevelopmental disorders autism and schizophrenia. We found that StMA genes show an overrepresentation of schizophrenia risk candidates identified by genome wide association studies from the genetic association database. Similar suggestive enrichment was also found for genes from the NHGRI genome-wide association study catalog and a psychiatric genetics consortium schizophrenia dataset although these latter more robust gene lists did not achieve statistical significance. We also examined multiple sources of copy number variation (CNV) datasets from autism and schizophrenia cohorts. After taking into account total gene numbers and CNV size, both autism and schizophrenia associated CNVs appeared to show an enrichment of StMA genes relative to the control CNV datasets. Since the StMA genes were originally identified in neural stem cells, bias due to the neural transcriptome is possible. To address this, we randomly sampled neural stem cell expressed genes and repeated the tests. After a significant number of iterations, neural stem cell expressed genes did not show an overrepresentation in autism or schizophrenia CNV datasets. Therefore, irrespective of the neural derived transcriptome, StMA genes originally identified in neural stem cells show an overrepresentation in CNVs associated with autism and schizophrenia. If this association is functional, then the regulation (or dysregulation) of this form of allelic expression status within tissues such as the brain may be a contributory risk factor for neurodevelopmental disorders and may also influence disease discordance sometimes observed in monozygotic twins.
Although the importance of RGS-GAIP-interacting protein (GIPC) in the biology of malignant cells is well known, the molecular mechanism of GIPC in the inhibition of tumor progression has not been identified. This study focused on elucidating the molecular role of GIPC in breast cancer progression. By using a human breast tumor specimen, an in vivo mouse model, and breast cancer cell lines, we showed for the first time that GIPC is involved in breast cancer progression through regulation of breast cancer cell proliferation, survival, and invasion. Furthermore, we found that the Akt/Mdm2/p53 axis, insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor, matrix metalloproteinase-9, and Cdc42 were downstream of GIPC signaling in breast cancer cells. Moreover, we showed that wild-type p53 reduced GIPC-induced breast cancer cell survival, whereas mutant p53 inhibited GIPC-induced cell invasion. Finally, we demonstrated that an N-myristoylated GIPC peptide (CR1023, N-myristoyl-PSQSSSEA) capable of blocking the PDZ domain of GIPC successfully inhibited MDA-MB-231 cell proliferation, survival, and further in vivo tumor growth. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the importance of GIPC in breast tumor progression, which has a potentially significant impact on the development of therapies against many common cancers expressing GIPC, including breast and renal cancer.
The transcription factor E2F-1, a downstream regulator of the p16-cyclinD-Rb pathway, is required for cell cycle progression. Evidence shows that overexpression of E2F-1 can either promote or inhibit the development of tumors, depending on tissue or experimental conditions. However, the clinical impact of E2F-1 expression on esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains unknown. To analyze E2F-1 expression in ESCC, we investigated the immunoreactivity of E2F-1 and its correlation with clinicopathological features in 122 patients who underwent surgical resection for ESCC. Positive E2F-1 immunostaining was detected in 73 patients (59.8%). Positive E2F-1 immunostaining correlated positively with pathologic stage (P = 0.0103), p-Grade (P = 0.0014) and pT (P = 0.0192). The overall survival rate was worse in patients with E2F-1-positive tumors than in patients with E2F-1-negative tumors (P = 0.0290). Over-expression of E2F-1 is associated with tumor progression and a worse prognosis after surgery in ESCC.
Uninfected children born to HIV-infected women are exposed antenatally to antiretroviral therapy, but it is uncertain whether this affects growth in early life. We analyzed weight, height, and occipitofrontal circumference (OFC) in 1912 children from a cohort study: 1304 had no or monotherapy exposure and 608 had combination therapy exposure. The mean z-score for birth weight or OFC did not differ by exposure category in 1513 term children or in 78 born at <34 weeks; the 266 born from 34 to 36 weeks were heavier if exposed to combination therapy. Children with combination therapy exposure born at 34 to 36 weeks reached the 25th centile for weight and OFC earlier than those not exposed born at 34 to 36 weeks (median: birth vs. 3 months; P = 0.003 [weight], P = 0.004 [OFC]), whereas children exposed to combination therapy born at <34 weeks reached the 25th centile for OFC later than those born at <34 weeks not exposed (median: 15 vs. 7 months; P = 0.004). Gestational age and maternal illicit drug use were strongly associated with growth, but the effect of combination therapy exposure was marginal (adjusted coefficients: weight, -0.10 [P = 0.019]; height, -0.12 [P = 0.008]; and OFC, -0.14 [P = 0.001]). Although the effect of combination therapy exposure is minimal, long-term monitoring of these children is important.
In addition to exerting long-term neurotrophic influences on developmental process such as neuronal survival and neuritic outgrowth, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been reported to modulate synaptic transmission in the short-term. Considerable evidence indicates that BDNF acutely modulates NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic activity. However, whether BDNF modulates inhibitory synaptic transmission remains to be firmly established. In the present study, we examined the effect of acute BDNF exposure on GABA-evoked whole-cell responses as well as GABAergic synaptic activity in cultured mouse cerebellar granule cells. GABA-evoked responses were reduced by 39.5 +/- 4.7 % upon acute and focal application of BDNF (100 ng ml-1). The reduction of the GABA response recovered only partially even minutes after removal of BDNF. TrkB-IgG and K252a, but not K252b, prevented the BDNF-induced attenuation of the GABA response. BDNF exposure shifted the cumulative peak amplitude distribution leftward for both spontaneous IPSCs (sIPSCs) and miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) without affecting the rise time and decay time constants. Acute exposure to BDNF also resulted in internalization of GABAA receptors in cultured cerebellar granule cells, as reflected by diminished immunostaining with an antibody against the GABAA receptor beta2/3 subunit. Although the BDNF-induced GABAA receptor internalization was sensitive to K252a, it did not become manifest until 5 min after exposure to BDNF. Therefore, receptor internalization alone cannot account for the prompt BDNF-induced attenuation of GABA-mediated activity. We conclude that BDNF modulates GABAA receptor-mediated activity through TrkB receptor signalling that triggers a kinase-dependent short latency effect and a delayed longer latency effect hallmarked by receptor internalization.
The goal of this review is to establish a broad and rigorous theoretical framework to describe ion permeation through biological channels. This framework is developed in the context of atomic models on the basis of the statistical mechanical projection-operator formalism of Mori and Zwanzig. The review is divided into two main parts. The first part introduces the fundamental concepts needed to construct a hierarchy of dynamical models at different level of approximation. In particular, the potential of mean force (PMF) as a configuration-dependent free energy is introduced, and its significance concerning equilibrium and non-equilibrium phenomena is discussed. In addition, fundamental aspects of membrane electrostatics, with a particular emphasis on the influence of the transmembrane potential, as well as important computational techniques for extracting essential information from all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations are described and discussed. The first part of the review provides a theoretical formalism to 'translate' the information from the atomic structure into the familiar language of phenomenological models of ion permeation. The second part is aimed at reviewing and contrasting results obtained in recent computational studies of three very different channels: the gramicidin A (gA) channel, which is a narrow one-ion pore (at moderate concentration), the KcsA channel from Streptomyces lividans, which is a narrow multi-ion pore, and the outer membrane matrix porin F (OmpF) from Escherichia coli, which is a trimer of three beta-barrel subunits each forming wide aqueous multi-ion pores. Comparison with experiments demonstrates that current computational models are approaching semi-quantitative accuracy and are able to provide significant insight into the microscopic mechanisms of ion conduction and selectivity. We conclude that all-atom MD with explicit water molecules can represent important structural features of complex biological channels accurately, including such features as the location of ion-binding sites along the permeation pathway. We finally discuss the broader issue of the validity of ion permeation models and an outlook to the future.
Hemodynamic shear stress regulates endothelial cell biochemical processes that govern cytoskeletal contractility, focal adhesion dynamics, and extracellular matrix (ECM) assembly. Since shear stress causes rapid strain focusing at discrete locations in the cytoskeleton, we hypothesized that shear stress coordinately alters structural dynamics in the cytoskeleton, focal adhesion sites, and ECM on a time scale of minutes. Using multiwavelength four-dimensional fluorescence microscopy, we measured the displacement of rhodamine-fibronectin and green fluorescent protein-labeled actin, vimentin, paxillin, and/or vinculin in aortic endothelial cells before and after onset of steady unidirectional shear stress. In the cytoskeleton, the onset of shear stress increased actin polymerization into lamellipodia, altered the angle of lateral displacement of actin stress fibers and vimentin filaments, and decreased centripetal remodeling of actin stress fibers in subconfluent and confluent cell layers. Shear stress induced the formation of new focal complexes and reduced the centripetal remodeling of focal adhesions in regions of new actin polymerization. The structural dynamics of focal adhesions and the fibronectin matrix varied with cell density. In subconfluent cell layers, shear stress onset decreased the displacement of focal adhesions and fibronectin fibrils. In confluent monolayers, the direction of fibronectin and focal adhesion displacement shifted significantly toward the downstream direction within 1 min after onset of shear stress. These spatially coordinated rapid changes in the structural dynamics of cytoskeleton, focal adhesions, and ECM are consistent with focusing of mechanical stress and/or strain near major sites of shear stress-mediated mechanotransduction.
In 1977/78 the American Research-plan toward understanding aging 'Our future selves' was published. In this article the report of the panel on biomedical research is reviewed. The report appears to be very comprehensive and to give a carefully detailed research plan. It will certainly take many years to realise all the plans. Part of the research could very well be done in the Netherlands although only to a limited extent. The governmental planning-group, which is developing a research plan for gerontology in the Netherlands, should make a sensible selection out of the many items mentioned in the American plan. After all, it is of vital importance to all of us, our future selves.
The human papillomavirus oncogenic protein, E6, interacts with a number of cellular proteins, and for some targets, E6 directs their degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Post-translational modification with ubiquitin-like modifiers, such as SUMO, also influences protein activities, protein-protein interactions, and protein stability. We report that the high risk HPVE6 proteins reduce the intracellular quantity of the sole SUMO conjugation enzyme, Ubc9, concomitant with decreased host sumoylation. E6 did not significantly influence transcription of Ubc9, indicating that the effects were likely at the protein level. Consistent with typical E6-mediated proteasomal degradation, E6 bound to Ubc9 in vitro, and required E6AP for reduction of Ubc9 levels. Under stable E6 expression conditions in differentiating keratinocytes there was a decrease in Ubc9 and a loss of numerous sumoylated targets indicating a significant perturbation of the normal sumoylation profile. While E6 is known to inhibit PIASy, a SUMO ligase, our results suggest that HPV E6 also targets the Ubc9 protein to modulate host cell sumoylation, suggesting that the sumoylation system may be an important target during viral reproduction and possibly the subsequent development of cervical cancer.
BACKGROUND: Production of antibodies that are specific for allergens is an important pathological process in inflammatory allergic diseases. These contain the antibodies against antigens of Candida albicans, one of the normal microbial flora in an intestinal tract. We studied the effects of the prednisolone administration on the production of anti-Candida antibodies in the gastrointestinally C. albicans-colonized mice. METHODS AND MATERIALS: BALB/c mice, treated with antibacterial antibiotics to decontaminate indigenous intestinal bacterial flora, were inoculated intragastrically with C. albicans. The mice, in which C. albicans grows intestinally, were administered prednisolone to induce temporary immunosuppression. The Candida growth in their intestinal tract and their antibody response to Candida were examined. RESULTS: Antibiotic treatment allowed establishment of C. albicans gastrointestinal colonization, but did not cause subsequent systemic dissemination of C. albicans in all the animals. When these animals received an additional treatment with prednisolone, they showed a significantly higher population of C. albicans in their feces than those of animals treated with antibiotics alone, and the organisms were recovered even from their kidney. This systemic dissemination by C. albicans appeared to be temporal, because all the mice survived without any symptoms for more than 2 months. Examination of the serum titers of total immunoglobulin (Ig)E antibodies and specific IgE and IgG antibodies against Candida antigens demonstrated that titers of total IgE increased, partially by day 14 and clearly at day 27, in prednisolone-treated Candida-colonized mice. Without prednisolone treatment, an increment of the serum titer was scarcely observed. By day 27, corresponding to the increase of total IgE, the anti-Candida IgE and IgG titer increased in mice of the prednisolone-treated group. CONCLUSION: Administration of prednisolone to Candida-colonized mice can induce production of the IgG, IgE antibodies against Candida antigens, perhaps through temporal systemic dissemination of Candida from the intestinal tract.
The purpose of the present study was to assembly information regarding caries prevalence among adolescent residents of kibbutzim in Israel. A total of 465 teenagers in 10 kibbutzim were examined for dental caries experienced. The DMFT figures derived in the study were almost double the values recorded for a comparable kibbitz age groups in the later 60's. Mean DMFT values were found to increase with age. The mean number of decayed teeth (D) showed a similar distribution. The proportion of teenagers free of caries was 1.5% and only 2.3% did not require any treatment. Despite the overwhelming need for dental care noted among kibbutz youth, only 21.6% were receiving care of their dental needs. Since physical blocks to access to dental care are almost non-existent in the kibbutz, it was suggested that the reason for the high rates of unmet needs, could, at least partially, be attributed to fear of pain and anxiety about the treatment.
It is estimated that approximately 3% of the world population are chronically infected with HCV, as the annual incidence of HCV infection is approximately 3-4 million people. Despite all efforts made to eradicate the HCV infection, after the standard therapy (PegIFN and ribavirin for 48 weeks) only 40-50% of the HCV infected individuals with genotype 1 achieve sustained virological response (SVR). Since our goal today is the eradication of HCV infection, our prior concern has become the identification of predictor factors concerning treatment response. Recent studies such as GWAS have been concerned with the genetic factors and the response to treatment. Recently all interest has been turned towards the demonstration of the host polymorphism located upstream of the IL-28B gene and which is associated with sustained virological response to treatment with pegylated interferon Alfa in combination with ribavirin. Although 2011 comes with the FDA approval of the new triple therapy associating telaprevir/ boceprevir to the standard therapy, a new ethical concern regarding the high costs of this treatment rises the problem of who is the first in line? This is just the beginning of a new quest to further investigate the relationship between the host's polymorphism of the IL-28 gene and the standard and triple therapy in HCV infected individuals in achieving SVR as well as who should receive standard or triple therapy. Determination of the IL-28 polymorphisms may be used together with clinical assessment in order to evaluate patients and to personalize their treatment. The purpose of this paper is to underline the main concerns regarding the goal and endpoints of the HCV therapy, and the relationship of IL-28 in achieving sustained virological response, as well as in pointing out the importance to determine prior to initiating treatment the polymorphism of IL-28 since it is a strong predictor. This is important because it will increase the chances to achieve SVR, it will be cost-effective and reduces adverse effects.
Pathological osteolyses are considered a consequence of a disturbance in the mechanisms that govern the bone remodeling, mainly the communication between osteoclasts and osteoblasts. Osteoprotegerin (OPG) and receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL) are newly discovered molecules that play a key role in these communications. RANKL is essential for osteoclast differentiation via its receptor RANK located on the osteoclast membrane. OPG is a soluble decoy receptor that inhibits osteoclast differentiation through its binding to RANKL. The aim of this study is the analysis of the RANKL/OPG balance by complementary methods (semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) in human osteolysis associated to various bone etiologies (n = 60), tumoral (primitive, secondary) or not, compared to healthy tissues (n = 16). Results demonstrated that RANKL/OPG ratio was significantly increased in patients suffering from severe osteolysis compared to the control group and that this imbalance is involved in bone resorption mechanisms. In this study, OPG expression appears to reflect a protective mechanism of the skeleton to compensate increased bone resorption by inhibiting osteoclast formation and bone resorbing activity. Moreover, as revealed by immunohistochemistry, RANKL and OPG were colocalized in all of the tissues analyzed. To define the veracity of RANKL/OPG index in assessing and managing patients with severe osteolysis, an extended population of patients suffering from severe osteolysis must be now monitored.
In the survey we conducted a prospective cohort oral 138 children and adolescents living in the same environmental conditions. To study the effect of the complex representation remineralizes fluorine-containing tricalcium phosphate coating for the prevention of caries-the process in childhood, all surveyed were divided into 3 groups with high, medium and low enough average caries based on clinical and laboratory examination. The authors found a 7-fold the efficiency of preventive measures in the group with sufficient average caries and 5 times the efficiency in the group with low average caries in relation to subgroups where remineralizes-present fluorine-containing coating with tricalcium phosphate is not applicable. Furthermore, it was found that the accumulation of fluorine occurs only in a surface layer of the enamel within 100 micrometers.
In 1996, a disease outbreak occurred at a captive breeding facility in Idaho, causing anorexia, dehydration, and diarrhea or sudden death in 72 of 110 Northern aplomado falcons (Falco femoralis septentrionalis) from 9 to 35 days of age and in 6 of 102 peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) from 14 to 25 days of age. Sixty-two Northern aplomado and six peregrine falcons died. Epidemiologic analyses indicated a point source epizootic, horizontal transmission, and increased relative risk associated with cross-species brooding of eggs. Primary lesions in affected birds were inclusion body hepatitis, splenomegaly, and enteritis. The etiology in all mortalities was determined by molecular analyses to be a new species of adenovirus distantly related to the group I avian viruses, serotypes 1 and 4, Aviadenovirus. In situ hybridization and PCR demonstrated that the virus was epitheliotropic and lymphotropic and that infection was systemic in the majority of animals. Adeno-associated virus was also detected by PCR in most affected falcons, but no other infectious agents or predisposing factors were found in any birds. Subsequent to the 1996 epizootic, a similar disease caused by the same adenovirus was found over a 5-year period in orange-breasted falcons (Falco deiroleucus), teita falcons (Falco fasciinucha), a merlin (Falco columbarius), a Vanuatu peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus nesiotes), and gyrfalcon x peregrine falcon hybrids (Falco rusticolus/peregrinus) that died in Wyoming, Oklahoma, Minnesota, and California. These findings indicate that this newly recognized adenovirus is widespread in western and midwestern North America and can be a primary pathogen in different falcon species.
A possible association between multiple drug resistance 1 gene (MDR1) polymorphisms and the risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is currently under debate, and evidence from various epidemiological studies has yielded controversial results. To derive a more precise estimation of the association between MDR1 polymorphisms and HCC risk, the present meta-analysis was performed. A total of 8 studies containing 11 cohorts with 4407 cases and 4436 controls were included by systematic literature search of EMBASE, PubMed, Web of Science, and CNKI. All polymorphisms were classified as mutant/wild-type alleles. In particular, the variation type, functional impact, and protein domain location of the polymorphisms were assessed and used as stratified indicators. The pooled odds ratio (OR) with 95 % confidence interval (CI) was calculated to evaluate the association. Overall, our results suggested that the mutant alleles of the MDR1 gene were associated with a significantly increased risk for HCC under all genetic models (allelic model: OR = 1.28, 95 % CI = 1.20-1.36, P < 0.001; dominant model: OR = 1.27, 95 % CI = 1.16-1.38, P < 0.001; recessive model: OR = 1.59, 95 % CI = 1.36-1.85, P < 0.001). Furthermore, increased risks for HCC were also revealed in stratified analyses by ethnicity, sample size, and quality scores of cohorts as well as variation type, functional impact, and protein domain location of polymorphisms. In conclusion, the present meta-analysis suggested that the presence of MDR1 mutant alleles might be a risk factor for HCC.
Chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) follows allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. It results from alloreactive processes induced by minor histocompatibility antigen incompatibilities leading to the activation of CD4 T cells and the development of fibrosis and inflammation of the skin and visceral organs and autoimmunity that resemble systemic sclerosis. EGFR is a ubiquitous cell receptor deeply involved in cell proliferation, differentiation, and motility. EGFR has recently been implicated in autoimmune and fibrotic diseases. Therefore, we tested whether Erlotinib, an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, can prevent sclerodermatous GVHD (Scl-GVHD). Scl-GVHD was induced in BALB/c mice by B10.D2 bone marrow and spleen cell transplantation. Transplanted mice displayed severe clinical symptoms including alopecia, fibrosis of the skin and visceral organs, vasculitis, and diarrhea. The symptoms were reversed in mice treated with Erlotinib. These beneficial effects were mediated by the decreased production of activated/memory CD4(+) T cells and the reduction in T-cell infiltration of the skin and visceral organs along with a decrease in IFN-gamma and IL-13 production and autoimmune B-cell activation. The improvement provided by Erlotinib in the mouse model of Scl-GVHD supplies a rationale for the evaluation of Erlotinib in the management of patients affected by chronic GVHD.
Replication and transcription of viral RNA genomes rely on host-donated proteins. Qbeta virus infects Escherichia coli and replicates and transcribes its own genomic RNA by Qbeta replicase. Qbeta replicase requires the virus-encoded RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (beta-subunit), and the host-donated translational elongation factors EF-Tu and -Ts, as active core subunits for its RNA polymerization activity. Here, we present the crystal structure of the core Qbeta replicase, comprising the beta-subunit, EF-Tu and -Ts. The beta-subunit has a right-handed structure, and the EF-Tu:Ts binary complex maintains the structure of the catalytic core crevasse of the beta-subunit through hydrophobic interactions, between the finger and thumb domains of the beta-subunit and domain-2 of EF-Tu and the coiled-coil motif of EF-Ts, respectively. These hydrophobic interactions are required for the expression and assembly of the Qbeta replicase complex. Thus, EF-Tu and -Ts have chaperone-like functions in the maintenance of the structure of the active Qbeta replicase. Modeling of the template RNA and the growing RNA in the catalytic site of the Qbeta replicase structure also suggests that structural changes of the RNAs and EF-Tu:Ts should accompany processive RNA polymerization and that EF-Tu:Ts in the Qbeta replicase could function to modulate the RNA folding and structure.
The dramatic expansion of the geographical range of coyotes over the last 90 years is partly explained by changes to the landscape and local extinctions of wolves, but hybridization may also have facilitated their movement. We present mtDNA sequence data from 686 eastern coyotes and measurements of 196 skulls related to their two-front colonization pattern. We find evidence for hybridization with Great Lakes wolves only along the northern front, which is correlated with larger skull size, increased sexual dimorphism and a five times faster colonization rate than the southern front. Northeastern haplotype diversity is low, suggesting that this population was founded by very few females moving across the Saint Lawrence River. This northern front then spread south and west, eventually coming in contact with an expanding front of non-hybrid coyotes in western New York and Pennsylvania. We suggest that hybridization with wolves in Canada introduced adaptive variation that contributed to larger size, which in turn allowed eastern coyotes to better hunt deer, allowing a more rapid colonization of new areas than coyotes without introgressed wolf genes. Thus, hybridization is a conduit by which genetic variation from an extirpated species has been reintroduced into northeastern USA, enabling northeastern coyotes to occupy a portion of the niche left vacant by wolves.
Selenium is essential for the normal life processes, and all animals, including fish, need this inorganic element. In order to research the pathology of selenium deficiency in common carp, Cyprinus carpio L., 360 juvenile carp were allocated to three treatments. Each treatment containing 120 fish was randomly divided into four groups, fed with purified diets containing selenium at 0, 0.15, 0.30 and 0.45 mg kg(-1). The results indicated that the morbidity and mortality rates of the test groups were negatively correlated with the level of selenium in the diets. The morbidity and mortality rates were, respectively, 46.7%, 33.3%, 13.3%, 0 and 26.7% 16.7%, 6.7%, 0. The affected fish exhibited pathological changes, such as 'thin back disease' and lordosis. Histologically, there was no abnormality observed in muscles, liver and pancreas. Ultrastructurally, there was swelling of the mitochondria of the cardiac muscle cells, the liver cells and renal tubular epithelial cells, with disintegration and lysis of the cristae of the mitochondria which vesiculated. Serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and glutamic pyruvic transaminase levels were increased and the activity of the serum glutathione peroxidase and the serum superoxide dismutase was decreased; in contrast, the serum malonaldehyde concentration was increased.
TGF-beta, together with IL-6 and IL-21, promotes Th17 cell development. IL-6 and IL-21 induce activation of STAT3, which is crucial for Th17 cell differentiation, as well as the expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS)3, a major negative feedback regulator of STAT3-activating cytokines that negatively regulates Th17 cells. However, it is still largely unclear how TGF-beta regulates Th17 cell development and which TGF-beta signaling pathway is involved in Th17 cell development. In this report, we demonstrate that TGF-beta inhibits IL-6- and IL-21-induced SOCS3 expression, thus enhancing as well as prolonging STAT3 activation in naive CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells. TGF-beta inhibits IL-6-induced SOCS3 promoter activity in T cells. Also, SOCS3 small interfering RNA knockdown partially compensates for the action of TGF-beta on Th17 cell development. In mice with a dominant-negative form of TGF-beta receptor II and impaired TGF-beta signaling, IL-6-induced CD4(+) T cell expression of SOCS3 is higher whereas STAT3 activation is lower compared with wild-type B6 CD4(+) T cells. The addition of a TGF-beta receptor I kinase inhibitor that blocks Smad-dependent TGF-beta signaling greatly, but not completely, abrogates the effect of TGF-beta on Th17 cell differentiation. Our data indicate that inhibition of SOCS3 and, thus, enhancement of STAT3 activation is at least one of the mechanisms of TGF-beta promotion of Th17 cell development.
Phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms are thought to be involved in the plastic events taking place in neurons during development. However, little is known about their expression and possible role in the mature nervous system. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying neuronal plasticity in the adult, we studied the pattern of expression of three microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms in the entire adult rat nervous system. Accordingly, we performed western blots and immunohistochemistries using the antibodies 125, 150 and 531, which specifically recognize phosphorylated and unphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein 1B epitopes. Two electrophoretically distinct microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms, slow-migrating and fast-migrating, were detected with the antibodies. The pattern of expression of these isoforms in the adult rat nervous system was region specific. Phosphorylated slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was expressed at all cellular compartments of primary sensory neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems. In addition to primary sensory axons, slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was encountered at some other axons within the central nervous system. We discuss the correlation between slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B axonal content and the regenerative potential of neurons. Phosphorylated fast-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was exclusively found in central nervous system dendrites where synaptic plasticity with morphological changes occurs in the adult. Unphosphorylated fast-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was the only isoform present in the bodies and dendrites of all motor neurons, and in peripheral and central nervous system glial cells of myelinated tracts with slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B-containing axons. In summary, this report describes the pattern of expression of microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms in the entire adult rat nervous system. In addition, it provides some information about the possible functional implications of phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms in the adult.
BACKGROUND: Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and cytochrome P450 19A1 (CYP19A1) genes have been associated with breast cancer risk, endocrine therapy response and side effects, mainly in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer. This analysis aimed to assess the association of selected germline CYP19A1 and ESR1 SNPs with early-onset hot flashes, sweating and musculoskeletal symptoms in premenopausal patients enrolled in the Tamoxifen and Exemestane Trial (TEXT). METHODS: Blood was collected from consenting premenopausal women with hormone-responsive early breast cancer, randomly assigned to 5-years of tamoxifen plus ovarian suppression (OFS) or exemestane plus OFS. DNA was extracted with QIAamp kits and genotyped for two CYP19A1 (rs4646 and rs10046) and three ESR1 (rs2077647, rs2234693 and rs9340799) SNPs by a real-time pyrosequencing technique. Adverse events (AEs) were recorded at baseline and 3-monthly during the first year. Associations of the genotype variants with grade >/=2 early-onset targeted AEs of hot flashes/sweating or musculoskeletal events were assessed using logistic regression models. RESULTS: There were 2660 premenopausal patients with breast cancer in the intention-to-treat population of TEXT, and 1967 (74 %) are included in this translational study. The CYP19A1 rs10046 variant T/T, represented in 23 % of women, was associated with a reduced incidence of grade >/=2 hot flashes/sweating (univariate odds ratio (OR) = 0.78; 95 % CI 0.63-0.97; P = 0.03), more strongly in patients assigned exemestane + OFS (TT vs CT/CC: OR = 0.65, 95 % CI = 0.48-0.89) than assigned tamoxifen + OFS (OR = 0.94, 95 % CI = 0.69-1.27, interaction P = 0.03). No association with any of the CYP19A1/ESR1 genotypes and musculoskeletal AEs was found. CONCLUSION: The CYP19A1 rs10046 variant T/T favors lower incidence of hot flashes/sweating under exemestane + OFS treatment, suggesting endocrine-mediated effects. Based on findings from others, this SNP may potentially enhance treatment adherence and treatment efficacy. We plan to evaluate the clinical impact of this polymorphism during time, pending sufficient median follow up. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00066703, registered August 6, 2003.
Clara cell secretory protein (CCSP) deficiency in mice is associated with increased susceptibility to pulmonary inflammation after hyperoxia or viral infection. Because adenoviral exposure perturbs pulmonary surfactant homeostasis in vivo, we hypothesized that CCSP deficiency would influence surfactant metabolism after pulmonary infection. Alveolar and total lung saturated phosphatidylcholine pool sizes were similar in CCSP-deficient [CCSP(-/-)] and wild-type [CCSP(+/+)] mice before and 7 days after intratracheal administration of adenovirus. Radiolabeled choline and palmitate incorporation into saturated phosphatidylcholine was similar, and there was no alteration by previous infection 7 days before the incorporation measurements. Furthermore, CCSP deficiency did not influence clearance of [(14)C]dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine and (125)I-labeled recombinant surfactant protein C. Increased persistence of alveolar capillary leak was observed in CCSP(-/-) mice after adenoviral infection. Surfactant lipid homeostasis was not influenced by CCSP before or after administration of adenovirus to the lung. Persistence of alveolar capillary leak in CCSP(-/-) mice after adenovirus provides further evidence for the role of CCSP in the regulation of pulmonary inflammation.
Wnt5a is a member of the Wnt family of proteins that signals through the non-canonical Wnt/Ca(2+)pathway to suppress cyclin D1. Deregulation of this pathway has been found in animal models suggesting that it acts as tumour suppressor in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Although DNA methylation is the main mechanism of regulation of the canonical Wnt pathway in AML, the role of WNT5A abnormalities has never been evaluated in this clinical setting. The methylation status of WNT5A promoter-exon 1 was analyzed by methylation-specific PCR and sequencing in eleven AML-derived cell lines and 252 AML patients. We observed WNT5A hypermethylation in seven cell lines and in 43% (107/252) of AML patients. WNT5A methylation was associated with decreased WNT5A expression (P < 0.001) that was restored after exposure to 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine. Moreover, WNT5A hypermethylation correlated with upregulation of CYCLIN D1 expression (P < 0.001). Relapse (15%vs 37%, P < 0.001) and mortality (61%vs 79%, P = 0.004) rates were lower for patients in the non-methylated group. Disease-free survival and overall survival at 6 and 7 years, respectively, were 60% and 27% for unmethylated patients and 20% and 0% for hypermethylated patients (P = 0.0001 and P = 0.04, respectively). Interestingly, significant differences were also observed when the analysis was carried out according to cytogenetic risk groups. We demonstrate that WNT5A, a putative tumor suppressor gene in AML, is silenced by methylation in this disease and that this epigenetic event is associated with upregulation of CYCLIN D1 expression and confers poor prognosis in patients with AML.
A total of 478 Vibrio parahaemolyticus strains isolated from overseas travellers' diarrhea during the last 7 years of 1989 to 1995 were examined for the production of Kanagawa hemolysin by reversed passive latex agglutination (RPLA) test. Three hundred-seventy (77.4%) out of 478 strains were positive for Kanagawa hemolysin, whereas 108 strains were weakly positive or negative. For those Kanagawa hemolysin-weakly positive or negative strains, the tdh and trh genes associated with the production of TDH (thermostable direct hemolysin) and TRH (TDH-related hemolysin), respectively, were studied by the polymerase chain reaction method. The trh gene was detected in 98 (90.7%) out of 108 strains. In 35 strains belonging to 13 serotypes such as O3: K6, O1:K33, O3:K59, the trh gene alone was detected. On the other hand, both trh and tdh genes were detected in 63 strains of 17 serotypes including O1:K69, O3:K72, O6:K46. Among the strains of 4 serotypes including O1:K56, O1:KUT, O3:KUT and O5:KUT, two types of the trh positive alone and the trh and tdh positive were observed. Of interest, all of the 98 trh-positive strains were positive for the urease hydrolysis, whereas all Kanagawa hemolysin-positive strains were not. Furthermore, the strains of serotype O6:K18 (4 strains) were positive for the fermentation of dulcitol, and the strains of serotype O1:K1 (5 strains) were indole negative. These characteristics of the strains were completely different from those of typical V. parahaemolyticus strains.
Breast cancer is a common malignancy in women. Acquisition of drug resistance is one of the main obstacles encountered in breast cancer therapy. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) has been demonstrated to play vital roles in both development and tumorigenesis. However, the relationship between lncRNAs and the development of chemoresistance is not well established. In the present study, the high expression of lncRNA H19 was identified as a powerful factor associated with paclitaxel (PTX) resistance in ERalpha-positive breast cancer cells, but not in ERalpha-negative breast cancer cells. LncRNA H19 attenuated cell apoptosis in response to PTX treatment by inhibiting transcription of pro-apoptotic genes BIK and NOXA. H19 was further confirmed to suppress the promoter activity of BIK by recruiting EZH2 and by trimethylating the histone H3 at lysine 27. Interestingly, our data showed that lncRNA H19 was one of the downstream target molecules of ERalpha. Altered ERalpha expression may therefore change H19 levels to modulate the apoptosis response to chemotherapy in breast cancer cells. Our data suggest that the ERalpha-H19-BIK signaling axis plays an important role in promoting chemoresistance.
This study reports the results of recurrence quantification analysis (RQA) applied to internal gastric electrical activity (GEA) and cutaneous electrogastrographic (EGG) digital recordings obtained from acute canine models. The purpose of this chaos analysis is to differentiate three states--normal, mild, and severe induced electrical uncoupling--utilizing five quantities associated with RQA: percent recurrence, percent determinism, maximum deterministic line, entropy, and trend. The results indicate that percent recurrence and trend are the only quantities that relate the three states of gastric electrical uncoupling in any meaningful way. The ability of EGG to detect mild electrical uncoupling in the stomach appears to be limited due to the impact of numerous external factors on the signals, even if multichannel recordings are utilized.
Members of the CK1 family are highly conserved serine/threonine specific kinases being expressed in all eukaryotes. They are involved in many cellular processes and therefore tightly regulated. A central mechanism to modulate CK1 activity is via interaction with cellular proteins. CK1delta interacts with alpha-/beta-tubulin and is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics. Therefore, it is important to identify the structural elements responsible for the interaction between these proteins. Using a peptide library covering the human CK1delta amino acid sequence in SPR and ELISA analyses, we identified peptide 39 (P39), encompassing aa361-aa375 of CK1delta, as a prominent binding partner of alpha-tubulin. P39 decreases alpha-tubulin phosphorylation by CK1delta and reduces the thermodynamic stability of alpha-tubulin in fluorescence thermal shift assays. Furthermore, P39 induces an inhibition of mitotic progression and a disruption of cells entering mitosis in CV-1 cells. Taken together our data provide valuable information regarding the interaction of CK1delta and alpha-tubulin and a novel approach for the development of pharmacological tools to inhibit proliferation of cancer cells.
A Gram-negative, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming bacterium (strain AR107(T)) was isolated from the drinking water distribution system of Seville (Spain). A polyphasic taxonomic study of the isolate resulted in its identification as a member of the genus Pedobacter. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence comparisons, strain AR107(T) was shown to belong to the phylum Bacteroidetes, being related to members of the genus Pedobacter. It showed 95.2 % sequence similarity with respect to the type strains of Pedobacter heparinus and Pedobacter piscium, and 94.1 % similarity with respect to the type strain of Pedobacter himalayensis. The predominant fatty acids were iso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(17 : 0) 3-OH and summed feature 3 (iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH and/or C(16 : 1)omega7c), which supports the affiliation of strain AR107(T) to the genus Pedobacter. The DNA G+C content of this strain was 38 mol%. On the basis of the phenotypic, phylogenetic and genotypic results, strain AR107(T) represents a novel species, for which the name Pedobacter aquatilis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is AR107(T) (=CCM 7347(T)=CECT 7114(T)=JCM 13454(T)).
Anatomical studies demonstrate selective compartmental innervation of most human extraocular muscles (EOMs), suggesting the potential for differential compartmental control. This was supported by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrating differential lateral rectus (LR) compartmental contraction during ocular counterrolling, differential medial rectus (MR) compartmental contraction during asymmetric convergence, and differential LR, inferior rectus (IR), and superior oblique (SO) compartmental contraction during vertical vergence. To ascertain possible differential compartmental EOM contraction during vertical ductions, surface coil MRI was performed over a range of target-controlled vertical gaze positions in 25 orbits of 13 normal volunteers. Cross-sectional areas and partial volumes of EOMs were analyzed in contiguous, quasi-coronal 2-mm image planes spanning origins to globe equator to determine morphometric features correlating best with contractility. Confirming and extending prior findings for horizontal EOMs during horizontal ductions, the percent change in posterior partial volume (PPV) of vertical EOMs from 8 to 14 mm posterior to the globe correlated best with vertical duction. EOMs were then divided into equal transverse compartments to evaluate the effect of vertical gaze on changes in PPV. Differential contractile changes were detected in the two compartments of the same EOM during infraduction for the IR medial vs. lateral (+4.4%, P = 0.03), LR inferior vs. superior (+4.0%, P = 0.0002), MR superior vs. inferior (-6.0%, P = 0.001), and SO lateral vs. medial (+9.7%, P = 0.007) compartments, with no differential contractile changes in the superior rectus. These findings suggest that differential compartmental activity occurs during normal vertical ductions. Thus all EOMs may contribute to cyclovertical actions.
7-Substituted 8-aza- 7-deazaadenosines 1a-e were synthesized by Sonogashira cross coupling from the corresponding 7-iodo nucleoside in 36-79% yields. Starting from 7-bromo (or 7-iodo)-8-aza-7-deazaadenine, 2a,b were obtained by acid-catalyzed glycosylation followed by deprotection in 53 and 35% yields, repectively. Compounds 2b was applied to cross coupling reaction to give 2c-d in 34-95% yield. Compounds 2a and 4b were further transformed to the phosphoramidites 5 and 6b in 9 and 49% overall yields, which were incorporated into oligonucleotides.
We have previously reported that a set of oral squamous cell carcinoma lines express specifically elevated cdk6 activity. One of the cell lines, SCC4, contains a cdk6 amplification and expresses functional p16ink4a, the other cell lines express undetectable levels of p16ink4a, despite a lack of coding-region mutations. Two of the cell lines, SCC15 and SCC40 have a hypermethylated p16ink4A promoter and a third cell line, SCC9, has a mutation in the p16ink4a promoter. Using the demethylation agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, we showed that the p16ink4a protein was re-expressed after a 5-day treatment with this chemical. One cell line, SCC15 expressed high levels of p16ink4a. In this line, cdk6 activity was decreased after 5-aza-2'deoxycytidine treatment, and the hypophosphorylated, growth suppressive form of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein pRB was detected. Expression of p16ink4a persisted, even after the drug was removed and the cells expressed senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity. Ectopic expression of p16ink4a with a recombinant retrovirus in this cell line also induced a similar senescence-like phenotype. Hence, it was possible to restore a functional pRB pathway in an oral squamous cell carcinoma line by inducing re-expression of endogenous p16ink4a in response to treatment with a demethylating agent.
BACKGROUND The pathogenesis of Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH), a disease characterized by an abnormal accumulation of the dendritic Langerhans cells, is still unknown. Based on the monoclonality of the CD1a+ cell and reports of familial clustering, it is hypothesized that a genetic alteration at a cellular level may be causative. This genetic change may have an effect on the cellular mechanisms controlling proliferation and apoptosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS LCH-lesions were studied for the expression of Ki-67, present in the nucleus of proliferating cells. Furthermore, the expression of cell cycle-related gene products TGF-beta receptor I and II, MDM2, p53, p21, p16, Rb, and Bcl2 were studied. The TGF-betaR genes play a role in tumor suppression, whereas Bcl2 inhibits apoptosis. The remaining genes are part of either the p53-p21 and/or p16-Rb pathways, which induce cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in response to DNA damage. RESULTS In 30 biopsies the diagnosis of LCH could be confirmed on the basis of CD1a positivity (27 bone and 3 skin). All cases showed scattered nuclear-positive staining for the proliferation marker Ki-67. In more than 90% (n >/=27) of these cases, expression of TGFbeta receptor I and II, MDM2, p53, p21, p16, Rb, and Bcl2 was detected in lesional LCH cells. The overexpression was in general heterogeneous, ranging from limited focal staining of scattered cells within the lesion to strong diffuse staining. CONCLUSIONS These findings suggest that the cellular mechanisms that sense and respond to DNA-damage, namely the p53-p21 pathway and the p16-Rb pathway, are activated. The expression of Ki-67 indicates that the cells in LCH are proliferating. The observed overexpression of Bcl2 may play a role in the activation of p53 and p16 and/or the arrest of apoptosis.
The present study was designed to identify the role of folate, B12, homocysteine, and polymorphisms of methylene tetrahydrofolatereductase (MTHFR) gene in cervical carcinogenesis among 322 women from Kerala, South India. Serum folate, vitamin B12 (chemiluminescence assay), and homocysteine (EIA) along with genetic polymorphisms of MTHFR gene (polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment length polymorphism) were analyzed for 136 control subjects, 92 low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) subjects, and 94 invasive cervical cancer cases (ICC). Statistically significant associations between MTHFR polymorphisms, serum homocysteine, and folate levels with cervical carcinogenesis were not evident, but we found that these parameters acted as effect modifiers of serum vitamin B12. The risk estimates observed for B12 became prominent only when there was a deficiency in serum folate levels [LSIL-odds ratio (OR): 14.9 (95% CI: 2.65 to 84.4); ICC-OR = 8.72 (95% CI = 1.55 to 48.8)] or when MTHFR A1298C polymorphic variant was present [LSIL-OR = 9.8 (95% CI = 2.61 to 36.7); ICC-OR = 10.0 (95%CI = 2.5 to 39.3)]. The statistical significance of this effect modification was further studied using an interaction model, where only folate was observed to have an influence on B12 levels as suggested by the odds ratio of 7.11 (95% CI = 0.45 to 111.9) obtained for ICC group, implicating a synergistic role of these 2 vitamins in invasive cervical cancer.
Methodology for the production of recombinant active cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) cathepsin K (EC 3.4.22.38) was elucidated. The cDNA encoding the cathepsin K was cloned from female M. cynomolgus monkey mRNA. The deduced amino acid sequence of M. cynomolgus preprocathepsin K from the cDNA sequence showed 94.2% identity to human preprocathepsin K. Sequence differences occurred only in the prepro- domains; the mature domains were identical. The recombinant M. cynomolgus cathepsin K was expressed as a secreted proenzyme using baculovirus-infected SF21 insect cells having the predicted N-terminus (LYPEEILDTH ellipsis ), indicating proper cleavage of the secretion sequence. Purified monkey procathepsin K was activated under autocatalytic conditions at pH 4.0. The mature enzyme was composed of mixture of enzymes having N-termini of Gly113 and Arg114. The molecular weight was determined to be 23,668.3 Da by MALDI-TOF-MS which is consistent with the absence of carbohydrate on the mature enzyme. These results indicate that monkey procathepsin K is able to autoactivate and produces a mature enzyme which is identical to that of human cathepsin K. Since the sequence of monkey and human mature cathepsin K are identical and the in vitro activation mechanisms appear to be indistinguishable, monkeys are predicted to be a good animal model for evaluating cathepsin K inhibitors in vivo as therapeutic agents for diseases characterized by excessive bone loss, such as osteoporosis.
Gene silencing by double-stranded RNA is a widespread phenomenon called RNAi, involving homology-dependent degradation of mRNAs. Here we show that RNAi is established in the Drosophila female germ line. mRNA transcripts are translationally quiescent at the arrested oocyte stage and are insensitive to RNAi. Upon oocyte maturation, transcripts that are translated become sensitive to degradation while untranslated transcripts remain resistant. Mutations in aubergine and spindle-E, members of the PIWI/PAZ and DE-H helicase gene families, respectively, block RNAi activation during egg maturation and perturb translation control during oogenesis, supporting a connection between gene silencing and translation in the oocyte.
Neuronal differentiation involving neurite growth is dependent on environmental cues which are relayed by signalling pathways to actin cytoskeletal remodelling. C3G, the exchange factor for Rap1, functions in pathways leading to actin reorganization and filopodia formation, processes required during neurite growth. In the present study, we have analyzed the function of C3G, in regulating neuronal cell survival and plasticity. Human neuroblastoma cells, IMR-32 induced to differentiate by serum starvation or by treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF) or forskolin showed enhanced C3G protein levels. Transient over-expression of C3G stimulated neurite growth and also increased responsiveness to NGF and serum deprivation induced differentiation. C3G-induced neurite growth was dependent on both its catalytic and N-terminal regulatory domains, and on the functions of Cdc42 and Rap1. Knockdown of C3G using small hairpin RNA inhibited forskolin and NGF-induced morphological differentiation of IMR-32 cells. Forskolin-induced differentiation was dependent on catalytic activity of C3G. Forskolin and NGF treatment resulted in phosphorylation of C3G at Tyr504 predominantly in the Golgi. C3G expression induced the cell cycle inhibitor p21 and C3G knockdown enhanced cell death in response to serum starvation. These findings demonstrate a novel function for C3G in regulating survival and differentiation of human neuroblastoma cells.
BACKGROUND: Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotypes in lamotrigine -induced (LTG-induced) cutaneous adverse drug reactions (cADRs) have been described in several reports but controversy remains even for a given ethnic group. We attempted to clarify a possible association between LTG-induced cADRs and HLA alleles in Japanese patients. METHOD: Sixteen subjects, including eight patients with LTG-induced cADRs and eight LTG-tolerant controls were included in this study. All eight patients with LTG-induced cADRs gave positive results in a drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test (DLST) with LTG. We performed HLA-typing for HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQA1, -DQB1, -DPA1 and -DPB1, using PCR with sequence-specific oligonucleotide probes and multiple analyte profiling (xMAP) technology (Luminex System; Luminex Corporation, Austin, TX). We examined differences between allele frequencies in our two groups of subjects and the allele frequencies in the general Japanese population. RESULTS: The frequencies of HLA-DRB1*0405, and HLA-DQB1*0401 alleles were higher in our LTG-cADRs patients than the reference frequencies in the general Japanese population. We also detected HLA-DQA1*0303 frequently in our LTG-cADRs patients, but data for this allele in the Japanese population was not available. Our observation was presumably due to the linkage disequilibrium among the three alleles. The haplotype frequency of HLA-DRB1*0405, DQB1*0401 and DQA1*0303 in our LTG-cADRs subjects was also different from the corresponding haplotype frequency in the database for the Japanese population and the difference was statistically significant. One patient with the HLA-DRB1*0405, -DQB1*0401 and DQA1*0303 haplotype was safely re-treated with LTG after results of a DLST with LTG ceased to be positive about 4 months after discontinuation of LTG. LIMITATIONS: Our analysis included only 16 patients. Associations between LTG-induced cADRs and specific HLA loci will have to be confirmed in larger studies. CONCLUSIONS: LTG-induced cADRs are associated with HLA-DRB1*0405, -DQB1*0401 and -DQA1*0303.
The ongoing functional annotation of proteins relies upon the work of curators to capture experimental findings from scientific literature and apply them to protein sequence and structure data. However, with the increasing use of high-throughput experimental assays, a small number of experimental studies dominate the functional protein annotations collected in databases. Here, we investigate just how prevalent is the "few articles - many proteins" phenomenon. We examine the experimentally validated annotation of proteins provided by several groups in the GO Consortium, and show that the distribution of proteins per published study is exponential, with 0.14% of articles providing the source of annotations for 25% of the proteins in the UniProt-GOA compilation. Since each of the dominant articles describes the use of an assay that can find only one function or a small group of functions, this leads to substantial biases in what we know about the function of many proteins. Mass-spectrometry, microscopy and RNAi experiments dominate high throughput experiments. Consequently, the functional information derived from these experiments is mostly of the subcellular location of proteins, and of the participation of proteins in embryonic developmental pathways. For some organisms, the information provided by different studies overlap by a large amount. We also show that the information provided by high throughput experiments is less specific than those provided by low throughput experiments. Given the experimental techniques available, certain biases in protein function annotation due to high-throughput experiments are unavoidable. Knowing that these biases exist and understanding their characteristics and extent is important for database curators, developers of function annotation programs, and anyone who uses protein function annotation data to plan experiments.
Chronic villitis is a placental lesion of unestablished etiology. It is characterized by destruction of chorionic villi with a mononuclear infiltrate and focal areas of fibrinoid necrosis. The lesion frequently is seen in normal placentae, yet more lesions have been reported in placentae from abnormal pregnancies. We measured the extent of villitis in 25 normal term placentae by using both light microscopy and immunocytology for class II (HLA-DR) antigens of the major histocompatibility complex. HLA-DR antigens were found to be characteristic of villitis areas. Normal placentae showed striking variations in the incidence of villitis, but these variations did not correlate with clinical outcome.
Adoptive T cell transfer (ACT) has achieved clinical success in treating established cancer, particularly in combination with lymphodepleting regimens. Our group previously demonstrated that ACT following whole-body irradiation (WBI) promotes high-level T cell accumulation, regression of established brain tumors, and long-term protection from tumor recurrence in a mouse model of SV40 T antigen-induced choroid plexus tumors. Here we asked whether an approach that can promote strong donor T-cell responses in the absence of WBI might also produce this dramatic and durable tumor elimination following ACT. Agonist anti-CD40 antibody can enhance antigen-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses and has shown clinical efficacy as a monotherapy in the setting of cancer. We show that anti-CD40 conditioning promotes rapid accumulation of tumor-specific donor CD8(+) T cells in the brain and regression of autochthonous T antigen-induced choroid plexus tumors, similar to WBI. Despite a significant increase in the lifespan, tumors eventually recurred in anti-CD40-conditioned mice coincident with loss of T-cell persistence from both the brain and lymphoid organs. Depletion of CD8(+) T cells from the peripheral lymphoid organs of WBI-conditioned recipients failed to promote tumor recurrence, but donor cells persisted in the brains long-term in CD8-depleted mice. These results demonstrate that anti-CD40 conditioning effectively enhances ACT-mediated acute elimination of autochthonous tumors, but suggest that mechanisms associated with WBI conditioning, such as the induction of long-lived T cells, may be critical for protection from tumor recurrence.
BACKGROUND: Cancer cells require more cholesterol than normal cells. This requirement may be satisfied by higher hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity or low-density lipoprotein receptor expression or both. We investigated hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity and low-density lipoprotein receptor expression in samples of gastric carcinoma and normal mucosa obtained from 30 patients. The samples of gastric carcinoma were divided into two categories according to Lauren's classification: diffuse-type and intestinal-type. METHODS: Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity was measured by radiometric assay and low-density lipoprotein receptor expression was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: Hydroxy-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase activity was significantly higher in neoplastic tissue than in normal mucosa, both in diffuse-type and intestinal-type gastric cancer. Low-density lipoprotein receptor levels were significantly lower in neoplastic tissue than in normal mucosa of diffuse-type gastric cancer, whereas no significant difference was present between neoplastic tissue and normal mucosa in intestinal-type gastric cancer. Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity did not differ between intestinal-type and diffuse-type neoplastic samples, while low-density lipoprotein receptor levels were significantly higher in intestinal-type than in diffuse-type gastric cancer tissue. CONCLUSIONS: These findings show different behavior of cholesterol metabolism in the two types of gastric carcinoma and, therefore, suggest that different therapeutic strategies should be adopted.
Developments in the fields of protein chemistry, proteomics and biotechnology have increased the demand for suitable analytical techniques for the analysis of intact proteins. In 1989, capillary electrophoresis (CE) was combined with mass spectrometry (MS) for the first time and its potential usefulness for the analysis of intact (i.e. non-digested) proteins was shown. This article provides an overview of the applications of CE-MS within the field of intact protein analysis. The principles of the applied CE modes and ionization techniques used for CE-MS of intact proteins are shortly described. It is shown that separations are predominantly carried out by capillary zone electrophoresis and capillary isoelectric focusing, whereas electrospray ionization (ESI) and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) are the most popular ionization techniques used for interfacing. The combination of CE with inductively coupled plasma (ICP) MS for the analysis of metalloproteins is also discussed. The various CE-MS combinations are systematically outlined and tables provide extensive overviews of the applications of each technique for intact protein analysis. Selected examples are given to illustrate the usefulness of the CE-MS techniques. Examples include protein isoform assignment, single cell analysis, metalloprotein characterization, proteomics and biomarker screening. Finally, chip-based electrophoresis combined with MS is shortly treated and some of its applications are described. It is concluded that CE-MS represents a powerful tool for the analysis of intact proteins yielding unique separations and information.
In atherosclerotic lesions, matrix metalloproteinases produced by foam cells (macrophages) are thought to increase plaque instability, promote plaque rupture, by degradating extracellular matrix. To investigate the relationship between the expression of these proteinases and the histologic appearance of atheromas, immunohistochemical analysis of matrix metalloproteinase 3 and cell-type markers was performed in atherosclerotic plaques induced in rabbit abdominal aortas by high-cholesterol diets and mechanical injury. In addition to an antibody against matrix metalloproteinase 3, RAM-11 and HHF-35 were used to detect macrophages and smooth muscle cells, respectively. Matrix metalloproteinase 3 was expressed diffusely within the plaques with a fibrofatty histologic pattern. In plaques with foam cell accumulation, matrix metalloproteinase 3 was seen in areas rich in foam cells and the smooth muscle cells near the lumen. In the plaques with fewer macrophages, the proteinase was expressed only in such smooth muscle cells. Matrix metalloproteinase 3 was expressed in the smooth muscle cells in plaques of all histologic types, and macrophages also expressed the metalloproteinase when present in significant numbers. These findings suggest that macrophage accumulation plays an important pathophysiologic role in causing the instability of atherosclerotic lesions by increasing the levels of matrix metalloproteinase 3.
Mycobacterium bovis Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) is the only vaccine in use to prevent Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. Here we analyzed the protective efficacy of BCG against Mtb challenges 21 or 120 days after vaccination. Only after 120 days post-vaccination were mice able to efficiently induce early Mtb growth arrest and maintain long-lasting control of Mtb. This protection correlated with the accumulation of CD4(+) T cells expressing IL-17(+)TNF(+)IL-2(+). In contrast, mice challenged with Mtb 21 days after BCG vaccination exhibited only a mild and transient protection, associated with the accumulation of CD4(+) T cells that were mostly IFN-gamma(+)TNF(+) and to a lesser extent IFN-gamma(+)TNF(+)IL-2(+). These data suggest that the memory response generated by BCG vaccination is functionally distinct depending upon the temporal proximity to BCG vaccination. Understanding how these responses are generated and maintained is critical for the development of novel vaccination strategies against tuberculosis.
We detail a rare cause of forearm compartment syndrome that occurred in an 18-year-old patient who presented with a Glasgow Coma Scale of 13/15 after a mixed drug overdose and subsequently required intubation. She suffered extravasation of her propofol infusion, which resulted in intrinsic compression within her forearm muscle compartments. Fortunately, the diagnosis of compartment syndrome was made swiftly and the patient was taken to theatre within 3 h where she underwent an emergency forearm fasciotomy. She made an uneventful recovery and at follow-up her wounds had healed well with no associated morbidity or loss of function. The learning points of this study highlight the importance of thoroughly understanding the signs and symptoms of compartment syndrome while maintaining a high index of suspicion. In addition to a thorough history and examination, consideration of the potential underlying causes allows for a swifter diagnosis and a quicker transition to theatre.
Ligand-dependent interaction of nuclear receptors and coactivators is a critical step in nuclear receptor-mediated transcriptional regulation. TR-binding protein (TRBP) interacts with nuclear receptors through a single LXXLL motif. Evidence suggested that the sequences flanking the LXXLL motif in a number of coactivators determine receptor selectivity. We performed mutagenesis studies at residues adjacent to the TRBP LXXLL motif and identified S884 of TRBP at the -3 position of the LXXLL motif as a key residue for receptor selectivity. Analysis of in vitro and in vivo receptor interactions with TRBP suggested that S884 allowed selective interactions for ERbeta, TR, and RXR vs. ERalpha. Transient transfection studies further confirmed that the LXXLL-binding affinity correlates with TRBP transcriptional activity. Consistent with the structural modeling, an E380G substitution within ERalpha altered the binding to TRBP mutants, demonstrating the direct contact between TRBP S884 and ERalpha E380, which is a residue that distinguishes receptor subclasses. Furthermore, S884 can be phosphorylated by MAPK in vitro, an event that significantly altered the binding of TRBP to ER and suggests a potential mechanism for regulatory interaction. As the differential recruitment of TRBP to ERalpha and ERbeta may rely on S884, our finding provides insight into estrogen signaling and may lead to the development of therapeutic receptor-selective peptide antagonists.
Carotenoids and phenolic profile, antioxidant activity as well as concentrations of selected macronutrients (K, N, Mg, Ca and Na) and micronutrients (Zn, Cu and Mn) in flesh and peel of peach fruit were recorded at two harvest dates. Predominant mineral was potassium, followed by calcium, magnesium and sodium. The concentration of most micronutrients was greater in the peel than in the flesh especially in early season. The concentration of most elements in flesh and peel decreased during fruit maturation. Total carotenoids content varied with respect to the cultivar. beta-cryptoxanthin and beta-carotene were the major carotenoids in both tissues and flesh contain the lowest amounts. Neochlorogenic acid, chlorogenic acid, catechin, epicatechin, gallic acid, rutin, quercetin-3-O-galactoside, cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, cyanidin-3-O-rutinoside, were detected in both peel and flesh, with chlorogenic acid and catechin being the predominant components. Peel extracts showed markedly higher antioxidant activities, when estimated by ABTS or DPPH assays, than the flesh counterparts, consistent with the observed higher phenolic content. Overall, total phenolics levels increased at full ripening stage in both peel and flesh. The results found herein provide important data on carotenoids, phenolic and macro- and micronutrient changes during fruit growth, and emphases peach fruit as a potential functional food.
BACKGROUND: Although high-dose N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been suggested to reduce COPD exacerbations, it is unclear which category of patients with COPD would benefit most from NAC treatment. The objective of this study was to compare the effect of high-dose NAC (600 mg bid) between high-risk and low-risk Chinese patients with COPD. METHODS: Patients with spirometry-confirmed stable COPD were randomized to treatment with either NAC 600 mg bid or placebo in addition to their usual treatments. Patients were followed up every 16 weeks for a total of 1 year. Further analysis was performed according to each patient's exacerbation risk at baseline as defined by the current GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) strategy to analyze the effect of high-dose NAC in high-risk and low-risk patients. RESULTS: Of the 120 patients with COPD randomized (men, 93.2%; mean age, 70.8 +/- 0.74 years; prebronchodilator FEV(1), 53.9 +/- 2.0%; baseline characteristics comparable between treatment groups), 108 (NAC, 52; placebo, 56) completed the 1-year study. For high-risk patients (n = 89), high-dose NAC compared with placebo significantly reduced exacerbation frequency (0.85 vs 1.59 [P = .019] and 1.08 vs 2.22 [P = .04] at 8 and 12 months, respectively), prolonged time to first exacerbation (P = .02), and increased the probability of being exacerbation free at 1 year (51.3% vs 24.4%, P = .013). This beneficial effect of high-dose NAC vs placebo was not significant in low-risk patients. CONCLUSIONS: High-dose NAC (600 mg bid) for 1 year reduces exacerbations and prolongs time to first exacerbation in high-risk but not in low-risk Chinese patients with COPD. TRIAL REGISTRY: ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01136239; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.
Sulforaphane (SUL), an isothiocyanate derived from broccoli and other cruciferous vegetables, is known to induce phase II detoxification enzymes, disrupt cancer cell microtubule polymerization, and trigger cell cycle arrest in breast and colon cancer cells. Here, we provide the first evidence that SUL also acts to inhibit angiogenesis via suppression of endothelial cell proliferation. Bovine aortic endothelial (BAE) cells were exposed to concentrations of up to 15 microM SUL prior to cell cycle analysis and mitotic index quantification. Within 24 h, 15 microM SUL clearly induced G(2)/M accumulation and pre-metaphase arrest in BAE cells. Moreover, immunofluorescence tubulin staining indicated that this same SUL concentration was efficacious in not only disrupting mitotic progression, but also in perturbing normal polymerization of mitotic (and cytoplasmic) microtubules. Furthermore, daily administration of SUL (100 nmol/day, i.v. for 7 days) to female Balb/c mice bearing VEGF-impregnated Matrigel plugs strongly and significantly (P<0.05) suppressed angiogenesis progression as measured by hemoglobin concentration. Taken together, these findings suggest that the endothelial cell population is a novel target of SUL action both in vitro and in vivo. This mechanism of SUL-induced endothelial microtubule disruption and early mitotic arrest may further discern a potential role of SUL as a chemopreventive agent.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review was to systematically evaluate the evidence comparing preservation fluids for liver allografts on transplant outcomes. BACKGROUND: Adequate preservation of liver allografts for transplantation is essential for successful transplant outcomes. There are several preservation fluids available that have been specifically designed for the static cold storage of livers. These fluids differ in composition and cost. METHODS: literature search was performed using MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, Transplant Library, and the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. Only randomized controlled trials were included. Studies were assessed for methodological quality. Primary outcomes were the risk of early dysfunction, primary nonfunction, retransplantation, patient survival, and graft survival. Secondary outcomes were serum biochemical parameters in the first week and biliary complications. Summary effects were calculated as relative risk and relative log survival with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs). RESULTS: Sixteen randomized controlled trials met the full inclusion criteria (1619 livers). There is good evidence that the University of Wisconsin and Celsior solutions are associated with the same rates of early dysfunction (relative risk = 1.08, 95% CI = 0.63-1.86, P = 0.77), primary nonfunction (relative risk = 0.73, 95% CI = 0.22-2.40, P = 0.60), patient survival (relative log survival = 0.86, 95% CI = 0.58-1.28, P = 0.46), and graft survival (relative log survival = 0.85, 95% CI = 0.59-1.23, P = 0.39). There was no good evidence of any difference in outcomes when comparing histidine-tryptophan-ketoglutarate with either of the University of Wisconsin or Celsior solution, although data were limited. CONCLUSIONS: Data from included studies suggest that preservation of deceased donor livers with the University of Wisconsin or Celsior solution results in equivalent outcomes.
We have isolated a cDNA clone from a mouse brain library encoding the glycine transporter (GLYT). Xenopus oocytes injected with a synthetic mRNA accumulated [3h]glycine to levels of up to 80-fold above control values. The uptake was specific for glycine and dependent on the presence of Na+ and Cl- in the medium. The cDNA sequence predicts a highly hydrophobic protein of 633 amino acids with 12 potential transmembrane helices. The predicted amino acid sequence has 40-45% identity to the GABA, noradrenaline, serotonin and dopamine transporters. This implies that all of these neurotransmitter transporters may have evolved from a common ancestral gene that diverged into the GABA, glycine and catecholamine subfamilies at nearly the same time.
Proper tooth brushing is the simplest way to maintain oral health. Still, it can cause considerable manipulative difficulties among parts of the population, like the elderly. The aim of this study was to evaluate a tool that could make tooth-brushing more effective and easier for this age group. Therefore, in a population of 34 elderly people aged 65 and over, we compared the plaque-removing ability of the Superbrush, a three-headed toothbrush, with the Elmex interX and the toothbrush normally used. A balanced cross-over design was chosen and the study was operator-blind. Two indices were used to measure the plaque-removing abilities of the toothbrushes, the OHI (Quigley-Hein plaque index) and the API (proximal plaque index). Professional tooth cleaning was performed to obtain a plaque-free condition at the beginning of the study as well as before switching to a new toothbrush. After one week of using each toothbrush, the OHI and API were determined to assess the oral hygiene status of each participant. The overall plaque removal was similar for the Superbrush, the Elmex interX and the patients' own toothbrushes. However, at the oral surfaces of the teeth, the Superbrush was significantly more effective than the other toothbrushes. No or only small differences were found for other surfaces (posterior and front teeth and facial surfaces).
On two extensive sheep farms in southern Western Australia, 111 (Farm A) and 124 (Farm B) female crossbred lambs (2-6 weeks old) were randomly selected and individually identified using ear tags (a numbered tag and radio-frequency tag) at marking. On five separate occasions, faecal samples were collected and live weight, body condition score (BCS), faecal consistency score (FCS), breech fleece faecal soiling score and faecal dry matter percentage (DM%) were recorded. Lamb hot carcase weight (HCW) and dressing percentage were measured at slaughter. Faecal samples were screened by PCR for Cryptosporidium (18S rRNA, actin and 60 kDa glycoprotein [gp60] loci), Giardia duodenalis (glutamate dehydrogenase [gdh] and triosephosphate isomerise [tpi]) and Campylobacter jejuni (16S rRNA). Observation of Eimeria oocysts and faecal worm egg counts (WECs) were performed using a modified McMaster technique. The WECs were adjusted for FCS for analyses. Faecal samples were screened for patent strongylid infections using PCR (specifically ITS-2 nuclear ribosomal DNA for Teladorsagia circumcincta, Trichostrongylus spp. and Haemonchus contortus). Lambs positive for Cryptosporidium at least once had lighter HCWs by 1.25 kg (6.6%) (P=0.029) and 1.46 kg (9.7%) (P<0.001) compared to lambs never positive for Cryptosporidium for Farms A and B respectively. Similarly, dressing percentages were 1.7% (P=0.022) and 1.9% (P<0.001) lower in Cryptosporidium-positive lambs on Farms A and B respectively. Lambs positive for Giardia at least once had 0.69 kg (P<0.001) lighter HCWs and 1.7% (P<0.001) lower dressing percentages compared to lambs never positive for Giardia on Farm B only. Cryptosporidium-positive lambs at the second sampling were 4.72 (P=0.010) and 3.84 (P=0.002) times more likely to have non-pelleted faeces compared to Cryptosporidium-negative lambs for Farms A and B respectively. Breech fleece faecal soiling scores of Cryptosporidium-positive lambs were 3.36 (P=0.026) and 2.96 (P=0.047) times more likely to be moderate to severe (scores 3-5), compared to negative lambs at the second sampling for Farms A and B respectively. Live weight, growth rate and BCS were inconsistently associated with protozoa detection across different samplings and farms. Adjusted WEC was correlated positively with FCS and negatively with faecal DM%, differing between sampling occasions and farms. Campylobacter jejuni prevalence was very low (<1%). Adjusted WEC were not correlated with carcase attributes, growth rates or live weights. This study is the first to quantify productivity consequences of naturally acquired protozoa infections in lambs managed under extensive farming conditions.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate to what extent laboratory data, actual medication, medical history, and/or drug indication influence the quality of medication reviews for nursing home patients. METHODS: Forty-six health care professionals from different fields were requested to perform medication reviews for three different cases. Per case, the amount of information provided varied in three subsequent stages: stage 1, medication list only; stage 2, adding laboratory data and reason for hospital admission; and stage 3, adding medical history/drug indication. Following a slightly modified Delphi method, a multidisciplinary team performed the medication review for each case and stage. The results of these medication reviews were used as reference reviews (gold standard). The remarks from the participants were scored, according to their potential clinical impact, from relevant to harmful on a scale of 3 to -1. A total score per case and stage was calculated and expressed as a percentage of the total score from the expert panel for the same case and stage. RESULTS: The overall mean percentage over all cases, stages, and groups was 37.0% when compared with the reference reviews. For one of the cases, the average score decreased significantly from 40.0% in stage 1, to 30.9% in stage 2, and 27.9% in stage 3; no significant differences between stages was found for the other cases. CONCLUSION: The low performance, against the gold standard, of medication reviews found in the present study highlights that information is incorrectly used or wrongly interpreted, irrespective of the available information. Performing medication reviews without using the available information in an optimal way can have potential implications for patient safety.
Tetracycline, doxycycline, streptomycin and rifampicin were used for prophylaxis of experimental plague in albino mice (Yersinia pestis 231, approximately 1000 LD50). The antibiotics were administered 5 hours after the infection for 5 days. Tetracycline and doxycycline provided survival of 60 to 75% of the animals, while the respective figure for streptomycin and rifampicin was 100%, but streptomycin and rifampicin inhibited development of plague immunity evident from a lower protection index (PI) by 3-4 orders. The PI for the tetracyclines lowered by 2 orders. Simultaneous prophylaxis with the tetracyclines and immunization by Y. pestis EV Rifr R(SmTc) (10(6) microbial cells) provided not only higher percentage of the animal survival (80-90%) but also development of sufficient plague immunity: PI of 1.0 x 10(5)--5.0 x 10(5). When the animals were infected with Y. pestis 231 R(SmTc) the use of the tetracyclines failed, whereas the use of doxycycline and simultaneous vaccination by EV Rifr R(SmTc) provided survival of 70-85% of the animals. Successive use of inefficient streptomycin (for 2 days) and efficient rifampicin (for 3 days) provided survival only of 30% of the mice. A similar regimen of the successive use of the inefficient and efficient antibiotics (the total term of 5 days) started simultaneously with immunization by EV Rifr R(SmTc) provided survival of 80% of the animals. The use of combined specific and urgent prophylaxis of plague infection due not only to antibiotic susceptible but also to antibiotic resistant strains of the plague pathogen was shown promising.
PURPOSE: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a promising treatment in cancer therapy, based on the use of a photosensitizer activated by visible light in the presence of oxygen. Nowadays significant research efforts have been focused on finding a new photosensitizer. In the present paper, the antitumor effects of a novel porphyrin-based photosensitizer, {Carboxymethyl-[2-(carboxymethyl-{[4-(10,15,20-triphenylporphyrin-5-yl)-phenylcar bamoyl]-methyl}-amino)-ethyl]-amino}-acetic acid (ATPP-EDTA) on two types of human malignant tumor cells in vitro and a gastric cancer model in nude mice, were evaluated. METHODS: The PDT efficacy with ATPP-EDTA in vitro was assessed by MTT assay. The intracellular accumulation was detected with fluorescence spectrometer, and the intracellular distribution was determined by laser scanning confocal microscopy. The mode of cell death was investigated by Hoechst 33342 staining and flow cytometer. BGC823-derived xenograft tumor model was established to explore the in vivo antitumor effects of ATPP-EDTA. RESULTS: ATPP-EDTA exhibited intense phototoxicity on both cell lines in vitro in concentration- and light dose-dependent manners meanwhile imposing minimal dark cytotoxicity. The accumulation of ATPP-EDTA in two malignant cell lines was time-dependent and prior compared to normal cells. It was mainly localized at lysosomes, but induced cell death by apoptotic pathway. ATPP-EDTA significantly inhibited the growth of BGC823 tumors in nude mice (160 mW/cm(2), 100 J/cm(2)). CONCLUSIONS: Present studies suggest that ATPP-EDTA is an effective photosensitizer for PDT to tumors. It distributed in lysosomes and caused cell apoptosis. ATPP-EDTA, as a novel photosensitizer, has a great potential for human gastric cancer treatment in PDT and deserves further investigations.
Site-specific incorporation of non-standard amino acids (NSAAs) into proteins opens the way to novel biological insights and applications in biotechnology. Here, we describe the development of a high yielding cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) platform for NSAA incorporation from crude extracts of genomically recoded Escherichia coli lacking release factor 1. We used genome engineering to construct synthetic organisms that, upon cell lysis, lead to improved extract performance. We targeted five potential negative effectors to be disabled: the nuclease genes rna, rnb, csdA, mazF, and endA. Using our most productive extract from strain MCJ.559 (csdA(-) endA(-)), we synthesized 550+/-40 mug mL(-1) of modified superfolder green fluorescent protein containing p-acetyl-L-phenylalanine. This yield was increased to approximately 1300 mug mL(-1) when using a semicontinuous method. Our work has implications for using whole genome editing for CFPS strain development, expanding the chemistry of biological systems, and cell-free synthetic biology.
Cadmium (Cd) is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant, a known carcinogen, and understudied as a developmental toxicant. In the present study, we examined the relationships between Cd levels during pregnancy and infant birth outcomes in a prospective pregnancy cohort in Durham, North Carolina. The study participants (n = 1027) had a mean Cd level of 0.46 microg/L with a range of <0.08 to 2.52 microg/L. Multivariable models were used to establish relationships between blood Cd tertiles and fetal growth parameters, namely birth weight, low birth weight, birth weight percentile by gestational age, small for gestational age, pre-term birth, length, and head circumference. In multivariable models, high maternal blood Cd levels (>/=0.50 microg/L) during pregnancy were inversely associated with birth weight percentile by gestational age (p = 0.007) and associated with increased odds of infants being born small for gestational age (p<0.001). These observed effects were independent of cotinine-defined smoking status. The results from this study provide further evidence of health risks associated with early life exposure to Cd among a large pregnancy cohort.
We report a largely retrospective analysis of minimal residual disease (MRD) in a cohort of 66 children suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). All patients lacked high-risk features at diagnosis, i.e. the presenting white cell count was <50 x 10(9)/l, age 1-16 years and translocations t(9;22) and t(4;11) were not present. All were treated according to either the MRC protocols UKALL X or XI. PCR of IgH, TCRdelta and TCRgamma gene rearrangements and allele-specific oligoprobing were employed for the detection of MRD. Sensitivity was at least 10(-4) in 78/82 (93%) probes examined. A total of 33 patients relapsed (seven on therapy and 26 off) and 33 remain in continuing complete remission (CCR) (median follow-up 69 months from diagnosis). Of those who remain in CCR, MRD was present in the bone marrow in 32%, 10% and 0% at 1, 3 and 5 months into therapy respectively. This is in marked contrast to the presence of MRD at these times in 82%, 60% and 41% of patients who relapsed (P<0.001, P<0.005 and P<0.005). These results provide further evidence of a strong correlation between clearance of MRD early in therapy and clinical outcome in childhood ALL.
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are derived from the inner cell mass of the blastocysts and are characterized by the ability to renew themselves (self-renewal) and the capability to generate all the cells within the human body. In contrast, inducible pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are generated by transfection of four transcription factors in somatic cells. Like embryonic stem cells, they are able to self-renew and differentiate. Because of these features, both ESCs and iPSCs, are under intense clinical investigation for cell-based therapy. In this review, we revisit stem cell biology and add a new layer of complexity. In particular, we will highlight some of the complexities of the system, but also where there may be therapeutic potential for modulation of intrinsic stem cells and where particular caution may be needed in terms of cell transplantation therapies.
The role of electrostatic interaction between Lys96 and Glu147 of isocitrate dehydrogenase from Thermus thermophilus was investigated by site-directed mutagenesis. These two residues are located near the active site and involved in the interdomain interaction. Analyses of the catalytic properties and thermostability of the Glu147Gln mutant revealed that this interaction plays important roles in catalytic function and protein stability.
Understanding the basic mechanisms that control CNS remyelination is of direct clinical relevance. Suitable model systems include the analysis of naturally occurring and genetically generated mouse mutants and the transplantation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) following experimental demyelination. However, aforementioned studies were exclusively carried out in rats and little is known about the in vivo behavior of transplanted murine OPCs. Therefore in the present study, we (i) established a model of ethidium bromide-induced demyelination of the caudal cerebellar peduncle (CCP) in the adult mouse and (ii) studied the distribution and marker expression of the murine OPC line BO-1 expressing the enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) 10 and 17 days after stereotaxic implantation. Injection of ethidium bromide (0.025%) in the CCP resulted in a severe loss of myelin, marked astrogliosis, and mild to moderate axonal alterations. Transplanted cells formed an invasive and liquorogenic metastasizing tumor, classified as murine giant cell glioblastoma. Transplanted BO-1 cells displayed substantially reduced CNPase expression as compared to their in vitro phenotype, low levels of MBP and GFAP, prominent upregulation of NG2, PDGFRalpha, nuclear p53, and an unaltered expression of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3. Summarized environmental signaling in the brain stem was not sufficient to trigger oligodendrocytic differentiation of BO-1 cells and seemed to block CNPase expression. Moreover, the lack of the remyelinating capacity was associated with tumor formation indicating that BO-1 cells may serve as a versatile experimental model to study tumorigenesis of glial tumors.
RATIONALE: Noradrenaline interacts with stress hormones in the amygdala and hippocampus to enhance emotional memory consolidation, but the noradrenergic-glucocorticoid interaction at retrieval, where stress impairs memory, is less understood. OBJECTIVES: We used a genetic neuroimaging approach to investigate whether a genetic variation of the noradrenergic system impacts stress-induced neural activity in amygdala and hippocampus during recognition of emotional memory. METHODS: This study is based on genotype-dependent reanalysis of data from our previous publication (Li et al. Brain Imaging Behav 2014). Twenty-two healthy male volunteers were genotyped for the ADRA2B gene encoding the alpha2B-adrenergic receptor. Ten deletion carriers and 12 noncarriers performed an emotional face recognition task, while their brain activity was measured with fMRI. During encoding, 50 fearful and 50 neutral faces were presented. One hour later, they underwent either an acute stress (Trier Social Stress Test) or a control procedure which was followed immediately by the retrieval session, where participants had to discriminate between 100 old and 50 new faces. RESULTS: A genotype-dependent modulation of neural activity at retrieval was found in the bilateral amygdala and right hippocampus. Deletion carriers showed decreased neural activity in the amygdala when recognizing emotional faces in control condition and increased amygdala activity under stress. Noncarriers showed no differences in emotional modulated amygdala activation under stress or control. Instead, stress-induced increases during recognition of emotional faces were present in the right hippocampus. CONCLUSION: The genotype-dependent effects of acute stress on neural activity in amygdala and hippocampus provide evidence for noradrenergic-glucocorticoid interaction in emotional memory retrieval.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine if differences in coronary endothelial function are observed between asymptomatic women with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) and control subjects using coronary phase contrast flow velocity magnetic resonance imaging in response to cold pressor stress, an established endothelium-dependent vasodilatory stress. METHODS: Phase contrast flow velocity imaging of the right coronary artery was performed in 7 asymptomatic premenopausal women with DM and 8 healthy female participants in response to the cold pressor test at 3 T. RESULTS: There was no significant difference in percent increase in coronary flow velocity from rest to peak flow velocity between DM and control subjects (32% +/- 22% vs 46% +/- 17%; P = 0.11). However, percent increase in coronary flow velocity was lower in DM than in control subjects (-3% +/- 14% vs 31% +/- 30%; P = 0.01) during the second minute of cold pressor stress, when endothelial-mediated vasodilation should occur. CONCLUSIONS: Asymptomatic women with DM demonstrate reduced coronary flow velocity during the second minute of cold pressor stress, indicating coronary endothelial dysfunction.
In order to take account of the likely increase in costs of biocides in the light of increasing legislation and concern for the environment, there is a need to maximise the efficiency of biocides for the control of biofouling. The use of ultrasound in conjunction with biocides offers such an opportunity. Tests have been carried out using ultrasound generated at 20 kHz in conjunction with the oxidising biocide ozone, in a laboratory pilot plant, to investigate the effects of mutuality. The preliminary results reported in this paper suggest that the combined effect of ultrasound and the biocide is better than either separately employed. Clearly substantially more work is required in order to maximise effectiveness for minimum cost.
BACKGROUND: This project used the process of research utilization to apply research knowledge to clinical practice for dressing peripheral intravenous (i.v.) catheters. METHOD: The project included (1) the review and synthesis of multiple research studies, (2) transformation of the research-based knowledge into a clinical protocol of use of adhesive bandage (AB) for dressing peripheral i.v. catheters, and (3) evaluation of the proportion of phlebitis as an outcome measure for comparison of peripheral i.v. catheter sites dressed with 2 x 2 inch gauze/tape or AB. Integral to the research utilization process was the use of planned change strategies. RESULTS: The proportion of phlebitis among peripheral i.v. catheters dressed with gauze/tape was 16.7% compared with 14.9% for AB. Antimicrobial ointment applied to the insertion site resulted in a higher proportion of phlebitis when used with an AB. CONCLUSION: This project used a research utilization framework to transfer research knowledge into clinical practice. To assure dissemination and implementation of the new practice, the use of ABs for dressing peripheral i.v.s was incorporated into hospital policy and procedure. In addition, the discontinuation of application of an antimicrobial ointment to peripheral i.v. sites was reinforced.
HIV-1 LAI is a syncytium-inducing (SI) virus with a broad host cell range. We previously isolated a LAI variant that improved replication in the SupT1 T cell line due to mutations within the C1 and C4 constant regions of the Env protein. We now report that this variant exhibits a severely restricted host cell range, as replication in other T cell lines and primary cells was abolished. Several Env-mediated functions were analyzed to provide a mechanistic explanation for this selective adaptation. The change in host cell tropism was not caused by a switch to a SupT1-specific coreceptor. Biosynthesis of the variant Env glycoprotein was not improved in SupT1 cells, and in fact a small defect in intracellular Env processing was observed. SupT1 infection assays did not reveal an improved Env function either, and a dramatic loss of infectivity was measured with other cell types. The Env-mutated HIV-1 reached an approximately fivefold higher level of virus production in SupT1 cells at the peak of infection. Unlike the LAI virus, the variant did not trigger the formation of syncytia. Our combined results suggest that the HIV-1 variant allows the infected host cell to survive longer, thus producing more viral progeny. The intricate virus-cell interaction results in a balance between optimal virus replication and host cell survival, causing a cytopathic SI isolate to evolve toward a nonsyncytium-inducing (NSI) phenotype in cell culture. These findings may help explain the absence of SI variants in the initial phase of HIV-1 infection, and the results dispute the notion that HIV-1 evolution should always go from the NSI to SI phenotype.
Articular cartilage displays a limited capacity of self-regeneration after injury. Thus, the biology of this tissue and its cellular components - the chondrocytes - has become the focus of several investigations, driven by tissue engineering and the basic and clinical research fields, aiming to ameliorate the present clinical approaches to cartilage repair. In this work, we present a brief recapitulation of the events that lead to cartilage development during the skeletal embryonal growth. The intrinsic phenotypic plasticity of the mesenchymal precursors and the adult chondrocytes is evaluated, dependent on the cell source, its physiopathological state, and as a function of the donor's age. The phenotypic changes induced by the basic culturing techniques are also taken into account, thus highlighting the phenotypic plasticity of the chondrocyte as the main property which could couple the differentiation process to the repair process. Chondrocyte proliferation and the contemporary maintenance of the chondrogenic differentiation potential are regarded as the two primary goals to be achieved in order to fulfill the quantitative needs of the clinical applications and the qualitative requirements of a properly repaired tissue. In this light, the effects of several growth factors and medium supplements are investigated. Finally, the latest improvements in culturing conditions and their possible clinical applications are presented as well.
Psylloidea are economically important insects causing serious damage to plants by direct feeding and/or vectoring bacterial pathogens. Results reported here indicate the presence of extracellular bacteria in the spermatheca of egg-laying Trioza alacris females. One phylotype, sharing 99 % identity with the non-phytopathogenic bacterium Erwinia tasmaniensis, was identified regardless of methods applied or insect sampling year and location. This is the first study, achieved by ultrastructural, cultural, and 16S rRNA gene-based analysis, of an insect spermatheca microbiota.
BACKGROUND: The validity of conclusions from observational studies depends on decisions regarding design, analysis, data quality, and implementation. Through sensitivity analyses, we explored the impact of such decisions on balance control and risk estimates. METHODS: Using as a template the Mini-Sentinel protocol for the active surveillance of acute myocardial infarction (MI) in association with use of antidiabetic agents, we defined cohorts of new users of metformin and second-generation sulfonylureas, baseline covariates and acute MI events using three combinations of washout and baseline periods. Using propensity-score matching, we assessed balance control and risk estimates using cumulative data for matching all patients compared with not rematching prior matches in quarterly analyses over the follow-up period. RESULTS: A longer washout period increased the confidence in new-user status, but at the expense of sample size; a longer baseline period improved capture of covariates related to pre-existing chronic conditions. When all patients were matched each quarter, balance was improved and risk estimates were more robust, especially in the later quarters. CONCLUSIONS: Durations of washout and baseline periods influence the likelihood of new-user status and sample size. Matching all patients tends to result in better covariate balance than matching only new patients. Decisions regarding the durations of washout and baseline periods depend on the specific research question and availability of longitudinal patient data within the database. This paper demonstrates the importance and utility of sensitivity analysis of methods for evaluating the robustness of results in observational studies.
A key step of Wnt signaling activation is the recruitment of beta-catenin to the Wnt target-gene promoter in the nucleus, but its mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we identified FoxM1 as a novel target of Wnt signaling, which is essential for beta-catenin/TCF4 transactivation. GSK3 phosphorylates FoxM1 on serine 474 which induces FoxM1 ubiquitination mediated by FBXW7. Wnt signaling activation inhibits FoxM1 phosphorylation by GSK3-Axin complex and leads to interaction between FoxM1 and deubiquitinating enzyme USP5, thereby deubiquitination and stabilization of FoxM1. FoxM1 accumulation in the nucleus promotes recruitment of beta-catenin to Wnt target-gene promoter and activates the Wnt signaling pathway by protecting the beta-catenin/TCF4 complex from ICAT inhibition. Subsequently, the USP5-FoxM1 axis abolishes the inhibitory effect of ICAT and is required for Wnt-mediated tumor cell proliferation. Therefore, Wnt-induced deubiquitination of FoxM1 represents a novel and critical mechanism for controlling canonical Wnt signaling and cell proliferation.
INTRODUCTION: Indications for prostate needle biopsy (PNB) include elevated serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and/or abnormal digital rectal examination (DRE). We evaluated a contemporary cohort of men undergoing PNB to determine cancer detection rates when stratified by DRE status. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The charts of 806 men who underwent a PNB were reviewed. Serum PSA was categorized as normal or abnormal according to age-specific criteria. A normal DRE was defined as a smooth, age-appropriate, asymmetric, or uniformly enlarged prostate. An abnormal DRE was defined by either a nodule or induration. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values were determined for an abnormal DRE and the diagnosis of prostate cancer. RESULTS: Within the cohort, 516 patients (64%) had a normal and 290 (36%) an abnormal DRE. Three hundred six (38%) men were diagnosed with prostate cancer of which 136 (44%) had an abnormal DRE. Fourteen percent of patients with prostate cancer had an isolated DRE abnormality. Furthermore, when specifically considering these 136 men with an abnormal DRE and prostate cancer, 43 (31%) had a normal age-specific PSA value. No differences in cancer detection rate were noted when stratifying by type of DRE abnormality. In this select cohort of patients undergoing prostate biopsy, an abnormal DRE had a sensitivity of 44%, specificity of 68%, positive predictive value (PPV) of 46%, and a negative predictive value (NPV) of 67% for detecting prostate cancer on biopsy. CONCLUSION: Almost 50% of men in our cohort diagnosed with prostate cancer had an abnormal DRE. While only 14% of all patients with prostate cancer had an isolated DRE abnormality, 31% of these men had normal age-specific PSA values. Such observations underscore the importance of the DRE for prostate cancer screening.
Anticipatory ligand binding through massive protein sequence variation is rare in biological systems, having been observed only in the vertebrate adaptive immune response and in a phage diversity-generating retroelement (DGR). Earlier work has demonstrated that the prototypical DGR variable protein, major tropism determinant (Mtd), meets the demands of anticipatory ligand binding by novel means through the C-type lectin (CLec) fold. However, because of the low sequence identity among DGR variable proteins, it has remained unclear whether the CLec fold is a general solution for DGRs. We have addressed this problem by determining the structure of a second DGR variable protein, TvpA, from the pathogenic oral spirochete Treponema denticola. Despite its weak sequence identity to Mtd ( approximately 16%), TvpA was found to also have a CLec fold, with predicted variable residues exposed in a ligand-binding site. However, this site in TvpA was markedly more variable than the one in Mtd, reflecting the unprecedented approximate 10(20) potential variability of TvpA. In addition, similarity between TvpA and Mtd with formylglycine-generating enzymes was detected. These results provide strong evidence for the conservation of the formylglycine-generating enzyme-type CLec fold among DGRs as a means of accommodating massive sequence variation.
OBJECTIVE: 5C11 antibody is a novel monoclonal antibody against human BST2 and can be used to detect activation of interferon-producing cells (IPCs). Activated IPCs, which produce large amounts of interferon-alpha (IFNalpha), are considered to play an important role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We investigated the characterization of 5C11-positive cells in patients with SLE. METHODS: The proportions of 5C11-positive cells among blood dendritic cell antigen 2 (BDCA-2)-, CD3-, CD19- and CD14-positive cells in peripheral blood from SLE patients (SLE-PBMCs) and healthy controls (control-PBMCs) were analyzed by flow cytometry. The effect of 5C11 antibody on IFNalpha production from SLE-PBMCs under stimulation with cytosine-phosphate-guanosine (CpG2216, bacterial oligonucleotide motif) was also examined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). RESULTS: The proportions of 5C11-positive cells among BDCA-2-, CD3- and CD19-, but not CD14-positive cells in SLE-PBMCs were significantly increased compared to those in control-PBMCs (p < 0.0001, all). Especially, the number of 5C11-positive cells among BDCA-2-positive cells was significantly increased in SLE-PBMCs by about six-fold compared to that in control-PBMCs (p < 0.0001). 5C11 antibody inhibited IFNalpha production by SLE-PBMCs induced by CpG and the inhibition rates was 27% (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: SLE patients had a significantly higher proportion of 5C11-positive cells among CD3 and CD19 cells, and especially BDCA-2 positive cells. The ability of 5C11 antibody to inhibit IFNalpha production from SLE-PBMCs warrants further investigation for its possible clinical application for the treatment of SLE.
Glycine is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the spinal cord and brainstem of vertebrates. Glycine is accumulated into synaptic vesicles by a proton-coupled transport system and released to the synaptic cleft after depolarization of the presynaptic terminal. The inhibitory action of glycine is mediated by pentameric glycine receptors (GlyR) that belong to the ligand-gated ion channel superfamily. The synaptic action of glycine is terminated by two sodium- and chloride-coupled transporters, GLYT1 and GLYT2, located in the glial plasma membrane and in the presynaptic terminals, respectively. Dysfunction of inhibitory glycinergic neurotransmission is associated with several forms of inherited mammalian myoclonus. In addition, glycine could participate in excitatory neurotransmission by modulating the activity of the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor. In this article, we discuss recent progress in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that underlie the physiology and pathology of glycinergic neurotransmission.
This review discusses recent progress in the development of anti-HIV agents targeting the viral entry process. The three main classes (attachment inhibitors, co-receptor binding inhibitors, and fusion inhibitors) are further broken down by specific mechanism of action and structure. Many of these inhibitors are in advanced clinical trials, including the HIV maturation inhibitor bevirimat, from the authors' laboratories. In addition, the CCR5 inhibitor maraviroc has recently been FDA-approved. Possible roles for these agents in anti-HIV therapy, including treatment of virus resistant to current drugs, are also discussed.
INTRODUCTION: Some studies of Hodgkin's disease support the concept that the disease may be due, directly or indirectly, to a common infectious agent, an infection acquired in late rather than early childhood being associated with an increased risk of oncogenesis. The Epstein-Barr virus is the leading candidate as one of these causative agents, because of its oncogenic properties in the laboratory and its association with two human malignancies, African Burkitt lymphoma and nasopharyngeal carcinoma. METHODS: We studied 49 patients with Hodgkin's disease. The patients were grouped according to the histologic type, clinical symptoms and immune state. The control group of 140 subjects was selected among healthy people. The antibodies against viral capsid antigen were measured with immunoperoxidase test, antibodies to nuclear antigen with anticomplement immunofluorescent test, and antibodies to early antigen with immunofluorescence method. RESULT: We found that all patients had antibodies against viral capsid antigen and nuclear antigen. We found an elevated titers for viral capsid antigen in 69% of patients, early antigen in 41% and nuclear antigen in 55% of patients. The incidence of elevated titers (> or = 320 for viral capsid antigen and > or = 40 for early antigen) and nuclear antigen was higher in patients than in control group; the differences were statistically significant. Also, the geometric mean of early viral capsid and of nuclear antibody titers in patients were significantly higher than that in control group (p < 0.01). DISCUSSION: The possible role of Epstein-Barr virus in Hodgkin's disease has been long investigated in epidemiological studies and the finding of Epstein-Barr antibody has been currently supported by the detection of genomic Epstein-Barr virus in diagnostic cells in some cases of Hodgkin's disease. Hodgkin's disease varies in prevalence, morphologic findings and association with Epstein-Barr virus in different parts of the world. Hodgkin's disease in Yugoslavia and its relationship to Epstein-Barr virus has not yet been studied. In conclusion, our results indicate that elevated titers of antibody against antigens associated with Epstein-Barr virus exist in patients with Hodgkin's disease. Whether this finding reflects a direct role of Epstein-Barr virus or whether this activity is a marker of the effect of a more fundamental factor, is not yet clear.
CONTEXT: Ocular complications due to diabetes mellitus (DM) were on the rise despite good literacy levels in South India. AIMS: To assess the knowledge and attitude toward DM and diabetic retinopathy of the general population in a suburban town of South India. SETTINGS AND DESIGN: Door-to-door population survey in suburban town of South India in May 2013. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A 30-point questionnaire was prepared and the data were collected and analyzed to determine statistically the knowledge, attitude, and practice (KAP) scores of the general and diabetic population and also to determine significant demographic associations. RESULTS: In this study, 6211 people (3528 [56.8%] women and 2683 [43.2%] men) with a mean age of 55.6 +/- 11.7 years (range 21-98 years) were included. Good knowledge and positive attitude were observed in 3457 (55.6%) and 3280 (52.8%) people. Among 1538 (25.4%) people known to have DM, only 619 (40.7%) had good knowledge, 828 (53.8%) had a positive attitude, and 886 (57.6%) had good practice patterns. Although half of them followed general diabetic care, only 9.6% had undergone screening for retinopathy. Literacy showed a significant association with good KAP (P < 0.001 each) in general population and those with DM. Overall, women had significantly better knowledge (P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Better literacy, especially among women, is contributory to better public awareness; however, the trend for poor practice patterns needs to be radically changed with aggressive public motivation emphasizing on the necessity of retinopathy screening and periodic follow-ups.
BACKGROUND: Severe sepsis is a major cause of mortality and morbidity globally. As the time to adequate treatment is directly linked to outcome, early recognition is of critical importance. Early, accessible markers for severe sepsis are desirable. The systemic inflammatory response in sepsis leads to changes in vital signs and biomarkers and to symptoms unrelated to the focus of infection. This study investigated whether the occurrence of any of six systemic symptoms could predict severe sepsis in a cohort of patients admitted to hospital for suspected bacterial infections. METHODS: A retrospective, consecutive study was conducted. All adult patients admitted during 1 month to a 550-bed secondary care hospital in western Sweden and given intravenous antibiotics for suspected community-acquired infection were included (n = 289). Symptoms (fever/chills, muscle weakness, localised pain, dyspnea, altered mental status and gastrointestinal symptoms) were registered along with age, sex, vital signs and laboratory values. Patients who fulfilled criteria of severe sepsis within 48 h were compared with patients who did not. Odds ratios for severe sepsis were calculated, adjusted for age, sex and comorbidities. RESULTS: Criteria for severe sepsis were fulfilled by 90/289 patients (31.1%). Altered mental status (OR = 4.29, 95% CI = 2.03-9.08), dyspnea (OR = 2.92, 95% CI = 1.69-5.02), gastrointestinal symptoms (OR = 2.31, 95% CI = 1.14-4.69) and muscle weakness (OR = 2.24, 95% CI = 1.06-4.75) were more common in patients who had or later developed severe sepsis. CONCLUSIONS: Systemic symptoms in combination with other signs of infection should be considered warning signs of severe sepsis.
In the Osaka population of Drosophila melanogaster, we found an incompatibility between second chromosomes and their genetic backgrounds, where a decrease in the average viability of heterozygotes in the foreign genetic background relative to that of the native one (A'/A = 0.889) was about equal to that in non-lethal homozygotes (C'/C = 0.874). This feature is different from that of the incompatibility found in the Ishigakijima population, where little difference in average viabilities of heterozygotes between the native and foreign backgrounds was found, whereas in mean non-lethal homozygotes viabilities a large decrease was seen. This feature is supposed to be induced by the P-M hybrid dysgenesis, as strong P-transposase activity was shown in this population with the GD sterility test. Although a property similar to that of the Osaka population had been detected in the Katsunuma population, an increased frequency of the lethal-carrying chromosomes had been found in the foreign genetic background relative to the native one, and was not seen in the Osaka population.
Legislative limits for driving under the influence of 20 non-alcohol drugs were introduced in Norway in February 2012. Per se limits corresponding to blood alcohol concentrations (BAC) of 0.2g/kg were established for 20 psychoactive drugs, and limits for graded sanctions corresponding to BACs of 0.5 and 1.2g/kg were determined for 13 of these drugs. This new legislation made it possible for the courts to make sentences based on the analytical results, similar to the situation for alcohol. To ensure that the reported concentration is as least as high as the true concentration, with a 99% safety level, safety margins had to be calculated for each of the substances. Diazepam, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and alcohol were used as model substances to establish a new model for estimating the safety margins. The model was compared with a previous used model established several years ago, by a similar yet much simpler model, and they were found to be in agreement. The measurement uncertainties depend on the standard batch used, the work list and the measurements' replicate. A Bayesian modelling approach was used to determine the parameters in the model, using a dataset of 4700 diazepam positive specimens and 5400 THC positive specimens. Different safety margins were considered for low and high concentration levels of diazepam (</=2muM (0.6mg/L) and >2muM) and THC (</=0.01muM (0.003mg/L) and >0.01muM). The safety margins were for diazepam 19.5% (</=2muM) and 34% (>2muM), for THC 19.5% (</=0.01muM) and 24.9% (>0.01muM). Concentration dependent safety margins for BAC were based on a dataset of 29500 alcohol positive specimens, and were in the range 10.4% (0.1g/kg) to 4.0% (4.0g/kg) at a 99% safety level. A simplified approach was used to establish safety margins for the compounds amphetamine, MDMA, methamphetamine, alprazolam, phenazepam, flunitrazepam, clonazepam, nitrazepam, oxazepam, buprenorphine, GHB, methadone, ketamine, cocaine, morphine, zolpidem and zopiclone. The safety margins for these drugs were in the range 34-41%.
OBJECTIVES: To identify the predictors of cytomegalovirus reactivation in AIDS patients on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). DESIGN: This prospective study enrolled cytomegalovirus-seropositive AIDS patients on or about to start HAART, who were not receiving anti-cytomegalovirus prophylaxis. Clinical and laboratory data were collected over 3.5 years at clinic visits, which coincided with the study visits. METHODS: Blood was obtained at every study visit and was used for measurements of cytomegalovirus cell-mediated immunity (lymphocyte proliferation, IFN-gamma, IL-2, and IL-10 production), cytomegalovirus viral load, CD4 cell count, and HIV viral load. A logistic-normal model was used to analyse outcome data with repeated observations. RESULTS: Twenty-six patients had 40 episodes of cytomegalovirus reactivation (positive cytomegalovirus viral load) during the study. Their immunological and virological parameters were compared with 26 randomly selected control individuals from the same cohort. The risk of cytomegalovirus reactivation significantly decreased with every 6-month increase in HAART duration [odds ratio (OR) 0.5; P = 0.02] and marginally increased with every log10 RNA copies/ml HIV viral load (OR 2; P = 0.07). CD4 cell counts, cytomegalovirus lymphocyte proliferation, IL-2, and IL-10 did not reach significance as predictors of cytomegalovirus reactivation. However, cytomegalovirus IFN-gamma production significantly decreased the risk of cytomegalovirus reactivation (OR 0.03; P = 0.04). CONCLUSION: Cytomegalovirus-specific IFN-gamma has a unique value as an immunological predictor of cytomegalovirus reactivation, demonstrating the importance of cellular immune responses in the control of cytomegalovirus replication in HAART recipients.
BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) core protein, in addition to its structural role to form the nucleocapsid assembly, plays a critical role in HCV pathogenesis by interfering in several cellular processes, including microRNA and mRNA homeostasis. The C-terminal truncated HCV core protein (C124) is intrinsically unstructured in solution and is able to interact with unspecific nucleic acids, in the micromolar range, and to assemble into nucleocapsid-like particles (NLPs) in vitro. The specificity and propensity of C124 to the assembly and its implications on HCV pathogenesis are not well understood. METHODS: Spectroscopic techniques, transmission electron microscopy and calorimetry were used to better understand the propensity of C124 to fold or to multimerize into NLPs when subjected to different conditions or in the presence of unspecific nucleic acids of equivalent size to cellular microRNAs. RESULTS: The structural analysis indicated that C124 has low propensity to self-folding. On the other hand, for the first time, we show that C124, in the absence of nucleic acids, multimerizes into empty NLPs when subjected to a pH close to its isoelectric point (pH approximately 12), indicating that assembly is mainly driven by charge neutralization. Isothermal calorimetry data showed that the assembly of NLPs promoted by nucleic acids is enthalpy driven. Additionally, data obtained from fluorescence correlation spectroscopy show that C124, in nanomolar range, was able to interact and to sequester a large number of short unspecific nucleic acids into NLPs. DISCUSSION: Together, our data showed that the charge neutralization is the major factor for the nucleocapsid-like particles assembly from C-terminal truncated HCV core protein. This finding suggests that HCV core protein may physically interact with unspecific cellular polyanions, which may correspond to microRNAs and mRNAs in a host cell infected by HCV, triggering their confinement into infectious particles.
Glucuronyl C5-epimerase catalyzes the conversion of d-glucuronic acid to l-iduronic acid units in heparan sulfate biosynthesis. Substrate recognition depends on the N-substituent pattern of the heparan sulfate precursor polysaccharide and requires the adjacent glucosamine residue toward the non-reducing end to be N-sulfated. Epimerization of an appropriately N-sulfated substrate is freely reversible in a soluble system, with equilibrium favoring retention of d-gluco configuration (Hagner-McWhirter, A., Lindahl, U., and Li, J.-P. (2000) Biochem. J. 347, 69-75). We studied the reversibility of the epimerase reaction in a cellular system, by incubating human embryonic kidney 293 cells with d-[5-(3)H]galactose. The label was incorporated with glucuronic acid units into the heparan sulfate precursor polysaccharide and was lost upon subsequent C5-epimerization to iduronic acid. However, analysis of oligosaccharides obtained by deaminative cleavage of the mature heparan sulfate chains indicated that all glucuronic acid units retained their C5-(3)H label, irrespective of whether they had occurred in sequences susceptible or resistant to the epimerase. All (3)H-labels of the final products resisted incubation with epimerase in a soluble system, apparently due to blocking O-sulfate groups. These results indicate that glucuronic acid C5-epimerization is effectively irreversible in vivo and argue for a stringent organization of the biosynthetic machinery.
Human osteoclast-associated receptor (OSCAR) is an immunoglobulin (Ig)-like collagen receptor that is up-regulated on osteoclasts during osteoclastogenesis and is expressed in a range of myeloid cells. As a member of the leukocyte receptor complex family of proteins, OSCAR shares a high degree of sequence and structural homology with other collagen receptors of this family, including glycoprotein VI, leukocyte-associated Ig-like receptor-1, and leukocyte Ig-like receptor B4, but recognizes a unique collagen sequence. Here, we present the crystal structures of OSCAR in its free form and in complex with a triple-helical collagen-like peptide (CLP). These structures reveal that the CLP peptide binds only one of the two Ig-like domains, the membrane-proximal domain (domain 2) of OSCAR, with the middle and trailing chain burying a total of 661 A(2) of solvent-accessible collagen surface. This binding mode is facilitated by the unusual topography of the OSCAR protein, which displays an obtuse interdomain angle and a rotation of domain 2 relative to the membrane-distal domain 1. Moreover, the binding of the CLP to OSCAR appears to be mediated largely by tyrosine residues and conformational changes at a shallow Phe pocket. Furthermore, we investigated CLP peptides as inhibitors of osteoclastogenesis and found that a peptide length of 40 amino acids is required to ensure adequate inhibition of osteoclastogenesis in vitro. These findings provide valuable structural insights into the mode of collagen recognition by OSCAR and into the use of synthetic peptide matrikines for osteoclastogenesis inhibition.
INTRODUCTION: Molecular testing for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and KRAS mutations is of increasing clinical importance in daily practice. In this study, we aimed to investigate the yield and applicability of molecular testing for KRAS and EGFR mutations in cytologic specimens obtained by EUS or endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS)-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA). METHODS: We selected all patients with an EUS- or EBUS-guided FNA positive for lung adenocarcinoma from the database of our tertiary care center for endosonography. Direct smears were Giemsa and Papanicolaou stained. The remaining material was processed in cell blocks. Both cell blocks and smears were considered suitable for molecular analysis when >40% of the aspirated cells were tumor cells. All eligible samples were investigated for KRAS and EGFR mutations by polymerase chain reaction followed by direct sequencing. RESULTS: Four hundred sixty-two patients underwent EUS or EBUS-FNA using 22-gauge needles. In 35 patients, FNA showed lung adenocarcinoma. In eight patients, molecular analysis could not be performed because of insufficient material after routine and immunocytochemistry (n = 3), a low percentage (<40%) of tumor cells (n = 3), or an insufficient DNA quality (n = 2). The average percentage of tumor cells was 73% +/- 23%. Molecular analysis could reliably be performed in 27 patients (77%). Mutation analysis showed KRAS and EGFR mutations in tumor samples from 10 (37%) and two (7%) patients, respectively. In one patient, two EGFR mutations (p.Thr790Met and p.Leu858Arg) were detected. CONCLUSIONS: Molecular analysis for KRAS and EGFR mutations can be performed routinely in cytologic specimens from EUS- and EBUS-guided FNA.
Chromosomes were prepared directly from primary tumor and bone marrow aspirates of an 8 months old infant and a 2 years old boy with metastatic neuroblastoma. A total of 765 tumor metaphases were counted after Giemsa-banding and partially karyotyped. "Double minute" chromosomes were found in the metaphases of both primary tumor and metastases of the infant, but only in the primary tumor of the older child. In both patients, structural imbalances (in addition to other translocations) were seen in the short arm of chromosome no. 1. The modal chromosome number was 46 in the infant's primary tumor and bone marrow metastases, but 84 in the primary tumor and 46 and over 100 in the bone marrow metastasis of the older child. Clonal evolution of metastasizing neuroblastoma cells is discussed.
Large amount of drilling waste associated with the expansion of the Orinoco Oil Belt (OOB), the biggest proven reserve of extra-heavy crude oil (EHCO) worldwide, is usually impregnated with EHCO and highly salinized water-based drilling fluids. Oxidative exoenzymes (OE) of the lignin-degrading enzyme system (LDS) of fungi catalyse the oxidation of a wide range of toxic pollutants. However, very little evidences on fungal degradation or biotransformation of EHCO have been reported, which contain high amounts of asphaltenes and its biodegradation rate is very limited. The aims of this work were to study the ability of Pestalotiopsis palmarum BM-04 to synthesize OE, its potential to biotransform EHCO and to survive in extreme environmental conditions. Enzymatic studies of the LDS showed the ability of this fungus to overproduce high amounts of laccase (LACp) in presence of wheat bran or lignin peroxidase (LIPp) with EHCO as sole carbon and energy source (1300 U mgP(-1) in both cases). FT-IR spectroscopy with Attenuated Total Reflectance (ATR) analysis showed the enzymatic oxidation of carbon and sulfur atoms in both maltenes and asphaltenes fractions of biotreated EHCO catalysed by cell-free laccase-enriched OE using wheat bran as inducer. UV-visible spectrophotometry analysis revealed the oxidation of the petroporphyrins in the asphaltenes fraction of biotreated EHCO. Tolerance assays showed the ability of this fungus to grow up to 50,000 p.p.m. of EHCO and 2000 mM of NaCl. These results suggest that P. palmarum BM-04 is a hopeful alternative to be used in remediation processes in extreme environmental conditions of salinity and EHCO contamination, such as the drilling waste from the OOB.
Abstract In the last years, it has been discussed frequently whether there are any harmful effects of electromagnetic fields on human health. Electromagnetic fields are generated by several natural and man-made sources. Part of the electromagnetic spectrum called Radiofrequency is used in communication systems such as mobile (cellular) phone and computer. The aim of our study was to explore different self-reported symptoms that may be associated with exposure to electromagnetic fields. This survey study was conducted, using a questionnaire, on 350 people aged +9 years in Turkey. The chi-square test was used for data analysis. Self-reported symptoms were headache, vertigo/dizziness, fatigue, forgetfulness, sleep disturbance-insomnia, tension-anxiety, joint and bone pain, lacrimation of the eyes, hearing loss and tinnitus. As a result of the survey, the study has shown that users of mobile phone and computer more often complained of headache, joint and bone pain, hearing loss, vertigo/dizziness, tension-anxiety symptoms according to time of daily usage (p < 0.05). In users of mobile phone and computer, women significantly (p < 0.05) complained more often of headache, vertigo/dizziness, fatigue, forgetfulness and tension-anxiety than men.
INTRODUCTION: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable; therefore searching for new therapeutic strategies in this disease is necessary. An important mechanism of tumor development is neoangiogenesis. A potent antiangiogenic factor, bevacizumab (Avastin, AVA), has been poorly explored in CLL so far. In the current study we assessed cytotoxic activity of AVA alone or in combinations with drugs routinely used in this disease. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cells isolated from 60 CLL patients were treated with AVA alone or in combination with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody (MoAb), rituximab (RIT), anti-CD52 MoAb, alemtuzumab (ALT), 2-CdA (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine), FA (fludarabine), MAF (mafosfamide) or RAPA (rapamycin). Cytotoxicity was assessed by propidium iodide staining. Apoptosis was evaluated using annexin-V and TUNEL assays. Additionally, a drop of mitochondrial potential (DYm) as well as expression of apoptosis-regulating proteins Bax, Bak, Bid, Bad, Bcl-2, Mcl-2, XIAP, FLIP, Akt and Bcl-2-A1 were determined by flow cytometry. RESULTS: At the dose of 40 mug/ml, after 48 hours of incubation, AVA induced significant cytotoxicity against CLL cells. The drug triggered apoptosis, with activation of caspase-3 and -9, but not caspase-8, along with a drop of DYm. Incubation with AVA induced significant overexpression of proapoptotic Bak and Bad as well as downregulation of antiapoptotic Mcl-2 and Akt proteins. Combination of AVA with RIT, ALT or RAPA significantly increased cytotoxicity when compared with the effects of single drugs. DISCUSSION: In conclusion, this is the first report showing proapoptotic activity of AVA against CLL cells. Combination of AVA with RIT, ALT or RAPA may be a promising therapeutic strategy, which requires confirmation in further studies.
Despite recent advances in medical management, fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) is still associated with high mortality. Liver transplantation is currently the only effective therapy for patients with FHF in many countries, but not yet in Japan. Thus, it is needed to introduce a bioartificial liver (BAL) support system using hepatocytes that substitutes for insufficient metabolism until the liver can recover. To function as a surrogate liver, BAL must meet two metabolic criteria: the first criterion requires highly differentiated liver cells; the second requires a mass sufficient to support the needs of the patients. Cell-extracellular matrix interaction is biologically relevant to regulating gene expression and maintaining cell differentiation of hepatocyte through activating liver-enriched transcriptional factors, including hepatocyte nuclear factor-1 (HNF-1) and HNF-4. With the advance of biotechnology, clinical trials of BAL using porcine primary hepatocytes or human hepatoblastoma cell lines have been successfully performed in the United States. In the near future, a hybrid liver support system is expected to be widely used for treating patients with FHF.
A 42-year-old man with Behcet's disease developed a rapidly growing mass under his right lower eyelid a week after transconjunctival cryotherapy. He underwent surgical drainage of the mass following imaging studies. Magnetic resonance imaging scans demonstrated the abscess, which did not violate the orbital septum. Cultures from drained material yielded Staphylococcus aureus. He recovered completely with systemic antibiotics. Preseptal abscess may occur as a complication of intense transconjunctival cryotherapy for intraocular disorders, and patients should be followed closely within the first few weeks postoperatively.
Although near-falls (or recoverable imbalances) are common episodes for many older adults, they have received a little attention and were not considered in the previous laboratory-based fall assessments. Hence, this paper addresses near-fall scenarios in addition to the typical falls and activities of daily living (ADLs). First, a novel vertical velocity-based pre-impact fall detection method using a wearable inertial sensor is proposed. Second, to investigate the effect of near-fall conditions on the detection performance and feasibility of the vertical velocity as a fall detection parameter, the detection performance of the proposed method (Method 1) is evaluated by comparing it to that of an acceleration-based method (Method 2) for the following two different discrimination cases: falls versus ADLs (i.e., excluding near-falls) and falls versus non-falls (i.e., including near-falls). Our experiment results show that both methods produce similar accuracies for the fall versus ADL detection case; however, Method 1 exhibits a much higher accuracy than Method 2 for the fall versus non-fall detection case. This result demonstrates the superiority of the vertical velocity over the peak acceleration as a fall detection parameter when the near-fall conditions are included in the non-fall category, in addition to its capability of detecting pre-impact falls.
alpha-parvin (PARVA) is known to be involved in the linkage of integrins, regulation of actin cytoskeleton dynamics and cell survival. However, the role that PARVA plays in cancer progression remains unclear. Here, using a lung cancer invasion cell line model and expression microarrays, we identify PARVA as a potential oncogene. The overexpression of PARVA increased cell invasion, colony-forming ability and endothelial cell tube formation. By contrast, knockdown of PARVA inhibited invasion and tube formation in vitro. Overexpression of PARVA also promoted tumorigenicity, angiogenesis and metastasis in in vivo mouse models. To explore the underlying mechanism, we compared the expression microarray profiles of PARVA-overexpressing cells with those of control cells to identify the PARVA-regulated signalling pathways. Pathway analysis showed that eight of the top 10 pathways are involved in invasion, angiogenesis and cell death. Next, to identify the direct downstream signalling pathway of PARVA, 371 significantly PARVA-altered genes were analysed further using a transcription factor target model. Seven of the top 10 PARVA-altered transcription factors shared a common upstream mediator, ILK. Lastly, we found that PARVA forms a complex with SGK1 and ILK to enhance the phosphorylation of ILK, which led to the phosphorylation of Akt and GSK3beta. Notably, the inactivation of ILK reversed PARVA-induced invasion. Taken together, our findings imply that PARVA acts as an oncogene by activating ILK, and that this activation is followed by the activation of Akt and inhibition of GSK3beta. To our knowledge, this is the first study to characterize the role of PARVA in lung cancer progression.
The activity of many anti-infectious drugs has been compromised by the evolution of multidrug-resistant (MDR) pathogens. For life-threatening fungal infections, such as those caused by Candida albicans, overexpression of MDR1, which encodes an MDR efflux pump of the major facilitator superfamily (MFS), often confers resistance to chemically unrelated substances, including the most commonly used azole antifungals. As the development of new and efficacious antifungals has lagged far behind the growing emergence of resistant strains, it is imperative to develop strategies to overcome multidrug resistance. Previous advances have been mainly to deploy combinational therapy to restore azole susceptibility, which, however, requires coordination of two or more compounds. We observed a unique phenotype in which Mdr1p facilitates the uptake of a specific class of compounds. Among them, we describe a novel antifungal small molecule, bis[1,6-a:5',6'-g]quinolizinium 8-methyl-salt (BQM) (U.S. patent application no. 61/793,090,2013), that has potent and broad antifungal activity. Notably, BQM exploits the MDR phenotype in C. albicans to promote the inhibitory effect. Rather than causing an antagonism of MDR strains, it exhibits a highly potentiated activity against a collection of clinical isolates and lab strains that overexpress MDR1. The activity of BQM against MDR1-overexpressing isolates is due to its facilitated intracellular accumulation. Microarray comparisons showed an extensive upregulation of MDR1 as well as polyamine transporter genes in a fluconazole-resistant strain. We then demonstrated that the polyamine transporters augment the accumulation of BQM. Importantly, BQM had greater activity than fluconazole and itraconazole against various fungal pathogens, including MDR Aspergillus fumigatus. Thus, our findings offer a paradigm shift to overcome MDR and the promise of improving antifungal treatment, especially in MDR pathogens.
Two types of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor, 5-HT1P and 5-HT3, have been identified physiologically on enteric neurons impaled by intracellular microelectrodes. Activation of 5-HT1P receptors evokes a long-lasting membrane depolarization associated with an increased input resistance, whereas stimulation of 5-HT3 receptors results in a brief depolarization during which the input resistance falls. Slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in myenteric type II-hyperpolarizing afterpotential (AH) neurons have been demonstrated to be mediated by 5-HT1P receptors. The current experiments were done to determine whether the substituted benzamide, BRL 24924, is a specific antagonist at 5-HT1P receptors and can be used as a probe to investigate the role played by serotoninergic neurons in the control of gastrointestinal motility. Intracellular microelectrodes were used to analyze the effects of BRL 24924 on guinea pig myenteric neurons. Microejection of BRL 24924 mimicked neither the long-lasting nor the brief response to 5-HT; however, BRL 24924 (0.5-1.0 microM) reversibly antagonized both the long-lasting 5-HT1P receptor-mediated responses of myenteric neurons to 5-HT and 5-HT-mediated slow EPSPs. A greater than 10-fold higher concentration of BRL 24924 was required to reduce the short-lived responses mediated by 5-HT3 receptors. BRL 24924 did not affect the response of myenteric neurons to substance P. These results indicate that BRL 24924 is primarily a 5-HT1P antagonist. Unlike other 5-HT1P agonists or antagonists, BRL 24924 did not block the binding of 5-[3H]HT to 5-HT1P receptors. This observation suggests that specific antagonism of physiological responses to 5-HT by BRL 24924 may be the result of an action on the coupling of the 5-HT1P receptor to its effector mechanism. BRL 24924 (0.5-1 mg/kg) and another 5-HT1P antagonist, N-acetyl-5-hydroxytryptophyl-5-hydroxytryptophan amide (5 mg/kg), significantly increased the rate of emptying of a 51Cr-labeled liquid meal from the murine stomach. In contrast, the 5-HT3 antagonist, ICS 205-930 (0.1-0.5 mg/kg), did not affect the rate of gastric emptying. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that intrinsic inhibitory neurons of the murine stomach are activated by serotoninergic axons acting through 5-HT1P receptors. Antagonism of an excitatory drive to neurons in a relaxant pathway may thus explain the gastrokinetic effects of BRL 24924.
Despite ecologists increasingly recognizing pathogens as playing significant roles in community dynamics, few experimental studies have quantified patterns of disease impacts on natural systems. Amphibians are experiencing population declines, and a fungal pathogen ( Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis; Chytridiomycota) is a suspected causal agent in many declines. We studied the effects of a pathogenic fungus on community interactions between the gray treefrog, Hyla chrysoscelis, and eastern newts, Notophthalmus viridescens. Recent studies have characterized chytridiomycosis as an emerging infectious disease, whose suspected rapid range expansion and widespread occurrence pose a significant risk for amphibian populations worldwide. We reared larvae in outdoor polyethylene experimental tanks and tested the effects of initial larval density, predator presence, and fungal exposure on Hyla recruitment and predator-prey interactions between Hyla and Notophthalmus. Newts reduced treefrog survival, and high intraspecific density decreased metamorphic body mass independent of B. dendrobatidis. The presence of fungi reduced treefrog body mass at metamorphosis by 34%, but had no significant main effect on survival or larval period length. B. dendrobatidis differentially affected larval development in the presence of predators; Hyla developed slower when reared with the pathogen, but only when newts were present. This significant predator-by-pathogen interaction suggests that the impact of chytridiomycosis on larval amphibians may be exacerbated in complex communities. Our data suggest that B. dendrobatidis effects on host life history may be complex and indirect. Direct measurements of the community-level effects of pathogens offer an important opportunity to understand a significant threat to global biodiversity-declining amphibian populations.
FOG-3, the single Caenorhabditis elegans Tob/BTG protein, directs germ cells to adopt the sperm fate at the expense of oogenesis. Importantly, FOG-3 activity must be maintained for the continued production of sperm that is typical of the male sex. Vertebrate Tob proteins have antiproliferative activity and ERK phosphorylation of Tob proteins has been proposed to abrogate "antiproliferative" activity. Here we investigate FOG-3 phosphorylation and its effect on sperm fate specification. We found both phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms of FOG-3 in nematodes. We then interrogated the role of FOG-3 phosphorylation in sperm fate specification. Specifically, we assayed FOG-3 transgenes for rescue of a fog-3 null mutant. Wild-type FOG-3 rescued both initiation and maintenance of sperm fate specification. A FOG-3 mutant with its four consensus ERK phosphorylation sites substituted to alanines, called FOG-3(4A), rescued partially: sperm were made transiently but not continuously in both sexes. A different FOG-3 mutant with its sites substituted to glutamates, called FOG-3(4E), had no rescuing activity on its own, but together with FOG-3(4A) rescue was complete. Thus, when FOG-3(4A) and FOG-3(4E) were both introduced into the same animals, sperm fate specification was not only initiated but also maintained, resulting in continuous spermatogenesis in males. Our findings suggest that unphosphorylated FOG-3 initiates the sperm fate program and that phosphorylated FOG-3 maintains that program for continued sperm production typical of males. We discuss implications of our results for Tob/BTG proteins in vertebrates.
A microbially safe process for the enrichment of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) in oats was developed. The process consists of hydrolysis of oat lipids by non-inactivated oat flour, followed by propionibacterium-catalyzed isomerization of the resulting free linoleic acid to CLA. The first stage was performed at water activity (a(w)) 0.7, where hydrolysis of triacylglycerols progressed efficiently without growth of the indigenous microflora of flour. Thereafter, the flour was incubated as a 5% (w/v) aqueous, sterilized slurry with Propionibacterium freudenreichii ssp. shermanii. The amount of CLA produced in 20 h was 11.5 mg/g dry matter corresponding to 116 mg/g lipids or 0.57 mg/mL slurry. The oat flour had also the capability to hydrolyze exogenous oils at a(w) 0.7. Sunflower oil, added to increase linoleic acid content in triacylglycerols 2.7-fold, was hydrolyzed rapidly. Isomerization of this oil-supplemented flour as a 5% slurry gave final CLA content of 22.3 mg/g dry matter after 50 h of fermentation, corresponding to 118 mg/g lipids or 1.14 mg/mL slurry. Storage stability of CLA in fermented oat slurries at 4 degrees C was good.
A model of SD rat focal ischemic cerebral injury is presented for use in noninvasively detecting both the extent and the location of focal ischemic cerebral injury. EEG signals of ischemic region and normal region are recorded from the moment before ischemia to 30 minutes after ischemia. Then the Power Spectral Entropy(PSE) analysis of EEG is performed. Results show that the PSE of EEG signals changes greatly as a result of focal ischemic cerebral injury. The PSE of EEG signal of ischemic region is less than that before ischemia as the ischemia lasts 15 minutes. The PSE of EEG signals of ischemic region is much less than that of normal region. These indicate that the power spectral entropy of EEG signal is a good index of focal ischemic cerebral injury and the method of power spectral entropy analysis is simple and effective.
In the present study, 63 polymorphic microsatellite markers related to rice blast resistance genes were fluorescently labelled at the 5'-end with either 6-FAM or HEX using the G5 dye set and incorporated into a multiplex SSR-PCR for the detection of fragments using an automated system. For rice F3 families obtained from crosses between Pongsu Seribu 2 (Malaysian blast resistant cultivar) and Mahsuri (a susceptible rice cultivar), the genotypes for 13 designated multiplex SSR panels were determined. The genotyping assays were performed using a capillary-based ABIPRISM 3100 genetic analyser. The sizes of the SSRs alleles observed in the range from 79 to 324 bp. The observed marker segregation data were analysed using the Chi(2) test. A genetic linkage map covering ten chromosomes and comprising 63 polymorphic SSR markers was constructed, and the distorted loci were localised to linkage groups. The results indicated that distorted loci are presented on eight chromosomes.
AIMS: To evaluate the predictive power of the 5-time point oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) for new-onset diabetes after kidney transplantation (NODAT). METHODS: We performed a retrospective study of 145 patients without diabetes who received kidney transplantations at our hospital. The 5-time point OGTT was performed before transplantation. The area under a receiver-operating characteristic curve (aROC) was used for evaluating the predictive power of 5-time point OGTT values. RESULTS: Seventeen patients developed NODAT within 1 year after transplantation. All postload plasma glucose (PPG) levels were higher in patients who developed NODAT than in those who did not; fasting plasma glucose levels were not different. The aROC for the area under the glucose concentration-time curve was significantly greater than that for fasting plasma glucose. Univariate and multivariate analyses showed that each PPG level was an independent risk factor for NODAT. Furthermore, patients with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) could be stratified with a 1-h plasma glucose (1h-PG) cut-off point of 8.4 mmol/L. The incidences of NODAT were 23.5%, 16.7%, 9.1%, and 0% for patients with IGT+1h-PG >/=8.4 mmol/L,IGT+1h-PG <8.4 mmol/L, NGT+1h-PG >/= 8.4 mmol/L, and NGT+1h-PG<8.4 mmol/L, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: The area under the glucose concentration-time curve and each PPG concentration during the 5-time point OGTT are strong predictors of NODAT. A 1h-PG cut-off point of 8.4 mmol/L plus NGT/IGT can be used to identify patients at intermediate and high risk of developing NODAT.
The human methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene encodes one of the key enzymes in folate metabolism. This gene is located on chromosome 1 (1p36.3), which has 12 exons. The aim of the present study was to investigate the possible association of the two (C677T and A1298C) polymorphisms of this gene with male infertility. In a case-control study, 250 blood samples were collected from IVF centres in Sari and Babol (Iran): 118 samples were from oligospermic men and 132 were from controls. Two single nucleotide polymorphisms of the MTHFR genotype were detected using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. There was no association found between the A1298C variant and male infertility. However, carriers of the 677T allele (CT and TT genotypes) were at a higher risk of infertility than individuals with other genotypes (odds ratio 1.84; 95% confidence interval 1.11-3.04; P=0.0174). Structural analysis of human MTHFR flavoprotein showed that C677T transition played an important role in the change in affinity of the MTHFR-Flavin adenine dinucleotide binding site. Based on our results, we suggest that C677T transition in MTHFR may increase the risk of male infertility, and detection of the C677T polymorphism biomarker may be helpful in the screening of idiopathic male infertility.
Low solubility of potent (anticancer) drugs is a major driving force for the development of noncytotoxic, stimuli-responsive nanocarriers, including systems based on amphiphilic block copolymers. In this regard, we investigated the potential of block copolymers based on 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate (HEA) and the acid-sensitive ketal-containing monomer (2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane-4-yl)methyl acrylate (DMDMA) to form responsive drug nanocarriers. Block copolymers were successfully synthesized by sequential reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization, in which we combined a hydrophilic poly(HEA)x block with a (responsive) hydrophobic poly(HEAm-co-DMDMAn)y copolymer block. The DMDMA content of the hydrophobic block was systematically varied to investigate the influence of polymer design on physicochemical properties and in vitro biological performance. We found that a DMDMA content higher than 11 mol % is required for self-assembly behavior in aqueous medium. All particles showed colloidal stability in PBS at 37 degrees C for at least 4 days, with sizes ranging from 23 to 338 nm, proportional to the block copolymer DMDMA content. Under acidic conditions, the nanoparticles decomposed into soluble unimers, of which the decomposition rate was inversely proportional to the block copolymer DMDMA content. Flow cytometry and confocal microscopy showed dose-dependent, active in vitro cellular uptake of the particles loaded with hydrophobic octadecyl rhodamine B chloride (R18). The block copolymers showed no intrinsic in vitro cytotoxicity, while loaded with paclitaxel (PTX), a significant decrease in cell viability was observed comparable or better than the two commercial PTX nanoformulations Abraxane and Genexol-PM at equal PTX dose. This systematic approach evaluated and showed the potential of these block copolymers as nanocarriers for hydrophobic drugs.
Two-hundred-and-seventeen children admitted with diarrhoea and 204 unmatched controls hospitalized during the 2-year period from November 1990 to October 1992 were included in this prospective study. Their stool samples were subjected to microscopy, cultures, ELISA for rotavirus and electron microscopy. Human rotavirus (HRV) was detected in 68 (31 per cent) of the stool samples in the study group and 12 (6 per cent) in the control group. There was an increased incidence in the cooler months of the year; typically, most of the affected infants and children presented with vomiting and respiratory symptoms, and had mild to moderate dehydration. Biochemical profile showed normal or hyponatraemia and normokalaemia. A more detailed community-based study of diarrhoeal diseases in Oman is to follow this pilot study.
Algae play several key roles in waste stabilisation ponds. A model has been developed to predict algal concentration in waste stabilisation ponds, in which the relationship between photosynthesis and underwater light availability is central. One equation was selected from several alternative expressions that describe this relationship. The selected equation consisted of four photosynthetic parameters. A field sampling programme was designed to investigate the relationships between the photosynthetic parameters and the pond environment. Although initial regression analyses were unsuccessful, distinct diurnal variations were revealed in two key photosynthetic parameters, related to an inverse variation in chlorophyll a concentration. This led to the derivation of a dynamic feedback hypothesis which challenges the classic assumption in algal modelling of constant photosynthetic parameters.
Thitarodes pui larvae are the hosts of a medicinal fungus, Ophiocordyceps sinensis, and are naturally distributed at an altitude of 4100-4650 m on Segrila Mountain of the Tibetan Plateau. Here, we conducted transcriptome profiling of T. pui larvae based on the Illumina high-throughput sequencing platform. Subsequently, we explored elevation-based differences of T. pui by comparing gene expression profiles between larvae at high-altitude (natural conditions) and larvae exposed to short-term (2months) low-altitude conditions. A total of 105,935,208 clean reads were assembled into 70,048 unigenes with a mean length of 639 bp. All unigenes were searched against public databases, with 51.26% unigenes being successfully annotated in the NR, SWISS-PROT, EuKaryotic Orthologous Groups (KOG), Gene Ontology (GO), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) databases. A total of 11,846 unigenes were functionally classified into 239 KEGG pathways. Metabolism was the most represented pathway, with 4271 unigenes (36.05%). Using the transcriptome data as a reference, 629 (311 up-regulated/318 down-regulated) genes were differentially expressed by low-altitude larvae when compared with those of high-altitude larvae. The most significantly differentially expressed genes were annotated in the processes of carbohydrate metabolism, lipid metabolism, and respiration. This report provides valuable information about the T. pui transcriptome for future genomic studies, including how gene expression is altered in larvae reared at different elevations.
The family of agn alleles in Escherichia coli pathovars encodes autotransporters that have been implicated in biofilm formation, autoaggregation, and attachment to cells. The alleles all have long leader RNAs preceding the Ag43 translation initiation codon. Here we present an analysis of the agn43 leader RNA from E. coli K-12. We demonstrate the presence of a rho-independent transcription terminator just 28 bp upstream of the main translation start codon and show that it is functional in vitro. Our data indicate that an as-yet-unknown mechanism of antitermination of transcription must be operative in earlier phases of growth. However, as bacterial cell cultures mature, progressively fewer transcripts are able to bypass this terminator. In the K-12 leader sequence, two in-frame translation initiation codons have been identified, one upstream and the other downstream of the transcription terminator. For optimal agn43 expression, both codons need to be present. Translation from the upstream start codon leads to increased downstream agn43 expression. Our findings have revealed two novel modes of regulation of agn43 expression in the leader RNA in addition to the previously well-characterized regulation of phase variation at the agn43 promoter.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the characteristics of three-dimensional motion of lumbar instability segmental in vivo under physiological weight bearing so as to establish three-dimensional diagnostic criteria for degenerative lumbar segmental instability (DLSI). METHODS: Eight patients aged 29-65 years with DLSI at L3/4 were studied as instability group (L3/4), 9 patients aged 51-60 years with DLSI at L4/5 as instability group (L4/5) and 10 healthy volunteers aged 26-51 years as normal group. Three-dimension (3D) reproductions by matching lumbar spine models were reconstructed from thin-section computed tomography scans. Spine motions were then reproduced by matching lumber spine models and images from dual fluoroscopic imaging system (DFIS). The models were matched to the osseous outlines of images from two orthogonal views to determine the SD position of vertebrae for each pose. From local coordinate systems at end plates, the motion of cephalad vertebrae relative to cauddal vertebrae was calculated for vertebrae levels. RESULTS: The motion pattern at L3/4 was altered . During flexion-extension, migration was significantly larger than normal group along sagittal axis (P < 0.05); rotation was significantly larger than normal group along vertical axis; migration was significantly smaller than normal group along vertical axis; during left-right twisting, rotation was significantly larger than normal group along vertical axis (P < 0.05). The motion pattern at L4/5 was also altered . During flexion-extension, migrations was significantly larger than normal group along sagittal axis (P < 0.05). During left-right twisting, migration and rotation were significantly smaller than normal group along vertical axis (P < 0.05). Rotation was significantly larger than normal group along sagittal axis. During left-right bending, rotation was significantly larger than normal group along sagittal axis (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Lumbar instability segments were significantly different compared with normal lumbar segments. And lumbar instability segments (at L3/4) were also different from lumbar instability segments (at L4/5). Different three-dimensional diagnostic criteria should be formulated for different lumbar instability segments.
OBJECTIVE: In women with multiple prior cesarean deliveries (CDs), vertical skin incisions are thought by some to result in better outcomes. The objective of this study was to compare maternal and neonatal outcomes according to the type of skin incisions among women with multiple prior CDs. STUDY DESIGN: This was a secondary analysis of MFMU Cesarean Registry data. Women undergoing repeat CD with a viable singleton gestation and history of >/=2 prior CDs were included in this analysis. Women who had indications for urgent CD (e.g., cord prolapse) or suspected placenta accreta were excluded. Maternal and neonatal outcomes of women with 2, 3 and >/=4 prior CDs were compared by skin-incision type (transverse vs. vertical) using univariable and multivariable analyses. RESULTS: 5007 women met the inclusion criteria. In univariable analysis, women with 2 prior CDs who had a vertical skin incision had shorter incision-to-delivery intervals (12.9 min vs. 14.1 min, p<0.001) but also higher rates of endometritis and composite adverse maternal outcomes (4.9% vs. 2.7%, p=0.001, 16.1% vs. 13.4%, p=0.026, respectively). Women with 3 prior CDs also had higher rates of composite adverse maternal outcomes (21.2% vs. 15.8%, p=0.042). In women with >/=4 prior CDs, prolonged hospitalization, composite adverse maternal outcomes, NICU admission and composite adverse neonatal outcomes also were higher with vertical skin incision (23.2% vs. 9.3%, p=0.005, 32.9% vs. 13.7%, p=0.001, 32.1% vs.19.6%, p=0.045, 32.9% vs.19.4%, p=0.024, respectively). In multivariable analyses, vertical skin incision remained associated with prolonged hospitalization and composite adverse maternal outcome among women with >/=4 prior CDs (aOR 3.40, CI 1.11-10.38, aOR=2.37, CI 1.02-5.55, respectively). CONCLUSION: Vertical skin incision at the time of multiple repeat CD was not associated with better obstetric or perinatal outcomes and was associated among women with >/=4 prior CDs with a higher frequency of prolonged hospitalization and adverse maternal outcomes.
Given the dramatic increase in skeletal size during growth, the need to preserve skeletal mass during adulthood, and the large capacity of bone to store calcium and phosphate, juxtaposed with the essential role of phosphate in energy metabolism and the adverse effects of hyperphosphatemia, it is not surprising that a complex systems biology has evolved that permits cross-talk between bone and other organs to adjust phosphate balance and bone mineralization in response to changing physiological requirements. This review examines the newly discovered signaling pathways involved in the endocrine functions of bone, such as those mediated by the phosphaturic and 1,25(OH)2D-regulating hormone FGF23, and the broader systemic effects associated with abnormalities of calcium and phosphate homeostasis.
A new and better taste avoidance conditioning paradigm for Lymnaea has been developed that replaces the previously used tactile unconditional stimulus (US) with an brief electrical stimulus (1000V, 80muA), while continuing to use a sucrose application to the lips as the conditional stimulus (CS). With 15 paired CS-US presentations on a single day, we were able to elicit both short-term memory (STM) and long-term memory (LTM). The LTM persisted for at least one week. While STM was elicited with 5, 8, or 10 paired presentations of the CS-US on a single day, LTM was not. The new US used here was more consistent than the previously used US, and this stimulus consistency may explain why 15 paired CS-US presentations now result in LTM formation.
The E. coli 6S RNA was discovered more than three decades ago, yet its function has remained elusive. Here, we demonstrate that 6S RNA associates with RNA polymerase in a highly specific and efficient manner. UV crosslinking experiments revealed that 6S RNA directly contacts the sigma70 and beta/beta' subunits of RNA polymerase. 6S RNA accumulates as cells reach the stationary phase of growth and mediates growth phase-specific changes in RNA polymerase. Stable association between sigma70 and core RNA polymerase in extracts is only observed in the presence of 6S RNA. We show 6S RNA represses expression from a sigma70-dependent promoter during stationary phase. Our results suggest that the interaction of 6S RNA with RNA polymerase modulates sigma70-holoenzyme activity.
Low rates of patient compliance pose a major challenge to effective asthma management. Non-compliance depends on many factors, including the patient's own treatment goals, beliefs about therapy, social and economic factors, administration route, convenience of device, and concerns about side-effects. Poor patient compliance may also be due to a discrepancy between the goals of the clinician and those of the patient. Clinicians tend to focus on prevention of mortality and reduction of morbidity, whereas patients are usually concerned with health-related quality of life. Improvement in patient compliance requires better clinician-patient communication and an improved therapeutic alliance between professional and patient, emphasizing shared goals. With shared decision-making, both the clinician and the patient decide on the patient's management plan. Together, they negotiate a plan that the patient is willing to follow and that works towards both sets of goals. A contractual agreement between patient and clinician may improve both clinical asthma control and patient health-related quality of life.
BACKGROUND: Data concerning treatment outcomes in patients with generalized aggressive periodontitis (GAgP) are limited. The aim of this study is to investigate 6-month clinical and microbiologic outcomes of the one-stage full-mouth disinfection (OSFMD) in the management of patients with GAgP. METHODS: Twenty-seven patients with advanced GAgP were included in this prospective follow-up intervention study. Clinical and microbiologic parameters were collected at baseline and 3 and 6 months after the OSFMD. Patient-, tooth-, and site-level analyses were carried out. Subgingival samples from moderate (4 to 5 mm) and deep (>/=6 mm) pocket sites were analyzed using a polymerase chain reaction for Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans (previously Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans), Prevotella intermedia, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Tannerella forsythia (previously T. forsythensis), and Treponema denticola. RESULTS: The OSFMD resulted in significant improvements in all parameters. After 6 months, the whole-mouth probing depth (PD) decreased from 4.2 +/- 1.1 mm to 2.8 +/- 0.6 mm, and the clinical attachment level was reduced from 4.5 +/- 1.2 mm to 3.4 +/- 1.1 mm (P <0.001). When data were analyzed based on the frequency distribution of PD, the number of sites with PD >/=5 mm decreased by 61% from baseline values, and mean PD reductions of 1.5 and 2.5 mm were noted in moderate and deep pockets, respectively. At 6 months, percentages of moderate and deep sites free of pathogens were 40% and 27%, respectively. CONCLUSION: The OSFMD may be a viable approach to deal with severe GAgP.
RNA editing alters messenger RNA transcripts by the addition and deletion of uridine residues. This remarkable process corrects frameshift mutations and replaces AUG initiation codons in most trypanosomatid mitochondrial RNA transcripts. Sometimes, however, RNA editing results in open reading frames whose sequences differ by greater than 50% from the original RNA sequences. In this paper, we will explore two models for the evolution of RNA editing in kinetoplastid protoza.
Presumptive treatment of febrile illness patients for malaria remains the norm in endemic areas of West Africa, and "malaria" remains the top source of health facility outpatient visits in many West African nations. Many other febrile illnesses, including bacterial, viral, and fungal infections, share a similar symptomatology as malaria and are routinely misdiagnosed as such; yet growing evidence suggests that much of the burden of febrile illness is often not attributable to malaria. Dengue fever is one of several viral diseases with symptoms similar to malaria, and the combination of rapid globalization, the long-standing presence of Aedes mosquitoes, case reports from travelers, and recent seroprevalence surveys all implicate West Africa as an emerging front for dengue surveillance and control. This paper integrates recent vector ecology, public health, and clinical medicine literature about dengue in West Africa across community, regional, and global geographic scales. We present a holistic argument for greater attention to dengue fever surveillance in West Africa and renew the call for improving differential diagnosis of febrile illness patients in the region.
BACKGROUND: Microbiologic culture of urine is an important component in the diagnosis of urinary tract infections (UTI). However, confounding factors like the patient's current history of antibiotic usage can affect the interpretation of urine culture results. AIMS: This study was undertaken to find out the occurrence of unreported antibiotic consumption prior to urine culture and its clinical consequences. METHOD: In this descriptive study conducted from February to August 2013, we tested consecutive urine specimens for the presence of antibiotics with a modified urine antibacterial substance assay (UABA) and compared the results obtained with the accuracy of antibiotic data entry on the accompanying request forms. In addition, the consequences of culturing urine specimens with incomplete antibiotic history received in the laboratory were investigated. RESULTS: Out of 2,040 urine specimens, 721 (35.34 per cent) were UABA positive. Comparison of antibiotic screening of urine with antibiotic data entry from request forms showed 1,299 (63.68 per cent) true-negative, 38 (1.86 per cent) true- positive, 20 (0.98 per cent) false-negative, and 683 (33.48 per cent) false-positive results. The sensitivity and specificity of this test were 65.52 per cent and 65.54 per cent, respectively. The positive and negative predictive values were 5.27 per cent and 98.48 per cent, respectively. The UABA had a positive diagnostic likelihood ratio of 1.901. CONCLUSION: This internal audit demonstrates how the accurate history of current antibiotic usage in the request forms impacts the interpretation of urine culture results.
The western clawed frog Xenopus tropicalis is an important model for vertebrate development that combines experimental advantages of the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis with more tractable genetics. Here we present a draft genome sequence assembly of X. tropicalis. This genome encodes more than 20,000 protein-coding genes, including orthologs of at least 1700 human disease genes. Over 1 million expressed sequence tags validated the annotation. More than one-third of the genome consists of transposable elements, with unusually prevalent DNA transposons. Like that of other tetrapods, the genome of X. tropicalis contains gene deserts enriched for conserved noncoding elements. The genome exhibits substantial shared synteny with human and chicken over major parts of large chromosomes, broken by lineage-specific chromosome fusions and fissions, mainly in the mammalian lineage.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in normal sperm function, and spermatozoa possess specific mechanisms for ROS generation via an NAD(P)H-dependent oxidase. The aim of this study was to identify the presence of an NADPH oxidase 5 (NOX5) in equine testis and spermatozoa. The mRNA of NOX5 was expressed in equine testis as detected by northern blot probed with human NOX5 cDNA and by RT-PCR. Immunoblotting with affinity purified alpha-NOX5 revealed one major protein in equine testis and other tissues. Immunolocalization of NOX5 showed labeling over the rostral sperm head with some labeling in the equatorial and post-acrosomal regions. In the testis, there was abundant staining in the adluminal region of the seminiferous tubules associated with round and elongating spermatids. The RT-PCR and sequence analysis revealed a high homology with human NOX5. This study demonstrates that NOX5 is present in equine spermatozoa and testes and therefore represents a potential mechanism for ROS generation in equine spermatozoa.
Engineered RNAs have demonstrated remarkable properties of molecular recognition and allosteric function. Liu and colleagues now report the isolation and in vivo function of a ligand-dependent RNA-based transcription factor that opens wide the door for allosterically controllable aptamers.
INTRODUCTION: Secondary biofilm formation by oral bacteria after breakdown/fracture of temporary or permanent restorations imposes a challenge to the outcome of root canal treatment. This study focuses on benzalkonium chloride (BAK) coating on dentin or polystyrene surfaces and its influence on the early adhesion and biofilm formation by oral and root canal bacteria. METHODS: Microbial adhesion and biofilm growth on surfaces coated with BAK were analyzed qualitatively with a dentin disk model and quantitatively with a mini-flow cell biofilm model. Cell viability and total biovolume were analyzed by the LIVE/DEAD technique. The repelling effect of surfaces coated with BAK was compared with NaOCl. Uncoated surfaces were used as controls. RESULTS: Scanning electron microscope images in the dentin disk model revealed that very sparse biofilms were formed on NaOCl- and BAK-coated dentin surfaces. In contrast, biofilms formed on uncoated dentin were clearly visible as numerous irregularly distributed aggregates of rods and cocci. In the mini-flow cell system, confocal laser scanning microscope analysis confirmed that biofilms formed on NaOCl- and BAK-coated surfaces showed significantly less adhesion (2 hours) and biovolume accumulation (24 and 96 hours) compared with the uncoated controls (P < .01). Furthermore, cell viability assessments showed that on uncoated controls the viability measurements were high (>89%) as well as on BAK-coated surfaces (88% viable cells). However, cell viability was significantly reduced on NaOCl-coated surfaces (59% viable cells). CONCLUSIONS: This study illustrates that surface coating with a surfactant solution containing BAK does not cause cell membrane damage but might interfere with cell mechanisms of adhesion. Investigations into the clinical utility of BAK as an antibiofilm medication are warranted.
After 25 years of intense pre-clinical work on microencapsulated intraperitoneal islet grafts into non-immunosuppressed diabetic recipients, the application of this procedure to patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus has been a significant step forward. This result, achieved in a few centers worldwide, underlies the safety of biopolymers used for microencapsulation. Without this advance, no permission for human application of microcapsules would have ever been obtained after years of purification technologies applied to the raw alginates. To improve safety of the encapsulated islet graft system, renewed efforts on the capsules' bioengineering, as well as on insulin-producing cells within the capsular membranes, are in progress. It is hoped that advances in these two critical aspects of the cell encapsulation technology will result in wider human application of this system.
Alpha-thalassaemia is inherited as an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by a microcytic hypochromic anaemia, and a clinical phenotype varying from almost asymptomatic to a lethal haemolytic anaemia.It is probably the most common monogenic gene disorder in the world and is especially frequent in Mediterranean countries, South-East Asia, Africa, the Middle East and in the Indian subcontinent. During the last few decades the incidence of alpha thalassaemia in North-European countries and Northern America has increased because of demographic changes. Compound heterozygotes and some homozygotes have a moderate to severe form of alpha thalassaemia called HbH disease. Hb Bart's hydrops foetalis is a lethal form in which no alpha-globin is synthesized. Alpha thalassaemia most frequently results from deletion of one or both alpha genes from the chromosome and can be classified according to its genotype/phenotype correlation. The normal complement of four functional alpha-globin genes may be decreased by 1, 2, 3 or all 4 copies of the genes, explaining the clinical variation and increasing severity of the disease. All affected individuals have a variable degree of anaemia (low Hb), reduced mean corpuscular haemoglobin (MCH/pg), reduced mean corpuscular volume (MCV/fl) and a normal/slightly reduced level of HbA2. Molecular analysis is usually required to confirm the haematological observations (especially in silent alpha-thalassaemia and alpha-thalassaemia trait). The predominant features in HbH disease are anaemia with variable amounts of HbH (0.8-40%). The type of mutation influences the clinical severity of HbH disease. The distinguishing features of the haemoglobin Bart's hydrops foetalis syndrome are the presence of Hb Bart's and the total absence of HbF. The mode of transmission of alpha thalassaemia is autosomal recessive. Genetic counselling is offered to couples at risk for HbH disease or haemoglobin Bart's Hydrops Foetalis Syndrome. Carriers of alpha+- or alpha0-thalassaemia alleles generally do not need treatment. HbH patients may require intermittent transfusion therapy especially during intercurrent illness. Most pregnancies in which the foetus is known to have the haemoglobin Bart's hydrops foetalis syndrome are terminated due to the increased risk of both maternal and foetal morbidity.
As a member of the neurotrophic factor family, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in the survival and differentiation of neurons. The aim of our work was to evaluate the role of BDNF promoter methylation in drug addiction. A total of 60 drug abusers (30 heroin and 30 methylamphetamine addicts) and 52 healthy age- and gender-matched controls were recruited for the current case control study. Bisulfite pyrosequencing technology was used to determine the methylation levels of five CpGs (CpG1-5) on the BDNF promoter. Among the five CpGs, CpG5 methylation was significantly lower in drug abusers than controls. Moreover, significant associations were found between CpG5 methylation and addictive phenotypes including tension-anxiety, anger-hostility, fatigue-inertia, and depression-dejection. In addition, luciferase assay showed that the DNA fragment of BDNF promoter played a key role in the regulation of gene expression. Our results suggest that BDNF promoter methylation is associated with drug addiction, although further studies are needed to understand the mechanisms by which BDNF promoter methylation contributes to the pathophysiology of drug addiction.
The influence of tobacco smoke on the dielectric properties of rat cornea were measured in vitro over the frequency range of the electric field of 500Hz-100kHz and in temperatures of the air from 25 to 150 degrees C. The temperature dependencies of the loss tangent for both healthy and smoky cornea represent the relation between the energy lost and the energy stored in the epithelium-stromal-endothelium systems of the cornea. The differences between the healthy and the smoky cornea concerned the temperature ranges in which there appeared the decomposition of loosely-bound water and beta-relaxation associated with polar side-chains relaxations on protein molecules of this tissue. The effect of smoke is manifested as a shift of the loss tangent peaks of these two processes towards higher temperatures, when compared with the control. The results are interpreted as caused by the toxic compounds of the tobacco smoke leading to higher ion transport in the nonhomogeneous structure of the cornea when compared to that of the control tissue. The activation energy of conductivity were similar for the healthy and smoky cornea as a consequence of the braking of hydrogen and Van der Waals bonds between loosely bound water, and the proteins of channels in the epithelium and endothelium. Recognition of the effect of frequency and temperature on the dielectric behaviour of the smoky cornea may be of interest for disease characterization of this tissue.
BACKGROUND: The world's population is aging faster and the incidence of acute kidney injury (AKI) needing continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) is increasing in elderly population. The outcome of AKI needing CRRT in elderly patients is known to be poor. However, the definitions of elderly used in the previous literatures were diverse and, there were few data that compared the long-term mortality rates of these patients with middle aged patients. This study was aimed to evaluate this issue. METHODS: This study was a single-center, retrospective cohort study of patients who underwent CRRT from January 2013 to December 2015. The patients were divided into the following four age cohorts: middle-aged (55-64), young-old (65-74), middle-old (75-84), and old-old (>/=85). The short- and long-term mortality rates for each age cohort were compared. RESULTS: A total of 562 patients met the inclusion criteria. The short-term mortality rate was 57.3% in the entire cohort. Compared with the middle-aged cohort, the middle-old cohort (HR 1.48 (1.09-2.02), p = 0.012) and the old-old cohort (HR 2.33 (1.30-4.19), p = 0.005) showed an increased short-term mortality rate along with an increased SOFA score, acidemia and a prolonged prothrombin time. When we analyzed the long-term mortality rate of the 238 survived patients, the middle-old cohort (HR 3.76 (1.84-7.68), p<0.001), the old-old cohort (HR 4.40(1.20-16.10), p = 0.025), a lower BMI, the presence of liver cirrhosis, the presence of congestive heart failure and a history of sepsis were independent risk factors for the prediction of long-term mortality. CONCLUSION: Compared with the middle-aged cohort, the middle-old and the old-old cohort showed an increased short-term and long-term mortality rate. However, in the young-old cohort, neither the short-term nor the long-term mortality rate was increased.
FP21 is a glycoprotein which, when tracked by radioactivity in its fucosyl moiety, was previously detected in the cytosol of Dictyostelium cells after cell fractionation. This compartmentalization is confirmed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis/Western blotting of cell fractions using three different antibodies. Although a substantial fraction of FP21 is also detected in the particulate fraction using these new antibodies, particulate FP21 is released by disrupting protein-protein interactions, but not membrane disruption. Since purified FP21 is susceptible to aggregation, and purified nuclei do not contain FP21, particulate FP21 is also part of the cytosol. Additional compositional and structural information provides strong evidence that FP21 does not at any time traverse the rough endoplasmic reticulum. First, cDNAs spanning the entire coding region of the FP21 gene predict no hydrophobic motifs expected to promote membrane insertion, but do predict an NH2-terminal coiled coil domain which could explain aggregation. Second, monosaccharide composition analysis of the predominant glycoform of FP21 yields 2 mol of galactose, 1 mol of xylose, and 1 mol of fucose/mol of polypeptide; FP21 from a fucosylation-defective mutant contains 1 additional mol of xylose in place of fucose. Thus the N-glycosylation sequon present in FP21 is not utilized by oligosaccharyl transferase, which resides in the rough endoplasmic reticulum. These findings indicate that nascent FP21 remains in the cytosol after synthesis and is therefore glycosylated by unusual cytosolic xylosyl-, galactosyl-, and fucosyltransferases.
In addition to its inhibitory activity against viral DNA polymerases and reverse transcriptase, the acyclic nucleoside phosphonate 9-(2-phosphonylmethoxyethyl)adenine (PMEA) also markedly inhibits the replicative cellular DNA polymerases alpha, delta, and epsilon. We have previously shown that PMEA is a strong inducer of differentiation in several in vitro tumor cell models and has marked antitumor potential in vivo. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of the differentiation-inducing activity of PMEA, we have now investigated the effects of the drug on cell proliferation and differentiation, cell cycle regulation, and oncogene expression in the human erythroleukemia K562 cell line. Terminal, irreversible erythroid differentiation of PMEA-treated K562 cells was evidenced by hemoglobin production, increased expression of glycophorin A on the K562 cell membrane, and induction of acetylcholinesterase activity. After exposure to PMEA, K562 cell cultures displayed a marked retardation of S-phase progression, leading to a severe perturbation of the normal cell cycle distribution pattern. Whereas no substantial changes in c-myc mRNA levels and p21, PCNA, cdc2, and CDK2 protein levels were noted in PMEA-treated K562 cells, there was a marked accumulation of cyclin A and, most strikingly, cyclins E and B1. A similar picture of cell cycle deregulation was also observed in PMEA-exposed human myeloid THP-1 cells. However, in contrast to the strong differentiation-inducing activity of PMEA in K562 cells, the drug completely failed to induce monocytic maturation of human myeloid THP-1 cells. On the contrary, THP-1 cells underwent apoptotic cell death in the presence of PMEA, as demonstrated by prelytic, intracellular DNA fragmentation and the binding of annexin V to the cell surface. We hypothesize that, depending on the nature of the tumor cell line, PMEA triggers a process of either differentiation or apoptosis by the uncoupling of normally integrated cell cycle processes through inhibition of DNA replication during the S phase.
BACKGROUND: Insect venom allergy (IVA) is present in 1-3% of the population. A group of patients with high specific IgE do not react to stings. In contrast, a proportion of patients with IVA have low specific IgE levels. These findings indicate that factors other than specific IgE may also be involved in IVA. Dysfunction of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) has been described as a potential factor in IVA. The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of angiotensin AGT p.M235T and angiotensin-converting enzyme ACE I/D, I/I, D/D gene polymorphisms in patients with IVA and to relate the presence of these gene variants to the course of IVA and the safety of treatment. METHODS: A total of 107 patients with IVA and 113 controls were studied. AGT p.M235T and ACE (ID, I/I, D/D) gene polymorphisms were examined, and angiotensin I levels were measured by immunoassay. RESULTS: The frequency of the AGT MM M235T variant was significantly higher in IVA patients (29.9%) than in controls (17%, p = 0.02). The presence of the MM M235T genotype increased the risk of grade IV reactions (odds ratio = 2.5 and 95% confidence interval 1.04-6.08). There were no differences in the prevalence of the ACE I/D polymorphism and angiotensin I levels between control groups and patients with different grades of anaphylactic reactions or patients with side effects of venom immunotherapy. CONCLUSION: The AGT M235T MM variant may be responsible for severe anaphylactic reactions to insect venom allergens in some patients.
The aim of this study was to further define the relationship between cell proliferation and the rate of tooth eruption in the rat incisor. Vinblastine is a drug that blocks cellular mitosis and was used to inhibit cell proliferation in the odontogenic region of rat incisors that were submitted to a shortening treatment or to higher masticatory forces. Male Wistar rats were divided into five groups: normofunctional (control group for incisor eruption), hypofunctional (incisor submitted to eruption acceleration), hyperfunctional (incisors under higher masticatory forces), hypofunctional with vinblastine and hyperfunctional with vinblastine. In incisors submitted to shortening procedures, a significant decrease in the eruption rate and cell proliferation was observed two days after vinblastine injection, suggesting that incisor eruption is dependent on cell proliferation.
Increased levels of intracellular copper stimulate angiogenesis in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Copper transporter 1 (CTR1) is a copper importer present in the cell membrane and plays a major role in copper transport. In this study, three siRNAs targeting CTR1 mRNA were designed and screened for gene silencing. HUVECs when exposed to 100 microM copper showed 3 fold increased proliferation, migration by 1.8-fold and tube formation by 1.8-fold. One of the designed CTR1 siRNA (si 1) at 10 nM concentration decreased proliferation by 2.5-fold, migration by 4-fold and tube formation by 2.8-fold. Rabbit corneal packet assay also showed considerable decrease in matrigel induced blood vessel formation by si 1 when compared to untreated control. The designed si 1 when topically applied inhibited angiogenesis. This can be further developed for therapeutic application.
The role of zinc (Zn) in anxiety, depression and psychosis was studied in rodents. Zn was administered at doses of 15 and 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally for 7 days. Both doses of Zn reduced the immobility time and increased the swimming time in the modified forced swim test. In the elevated plus maze test, increases in the number of open arm entries and time spent in the open arms were observed with both doses of Zn. In the amphetamine (1 and 2 mg/kg subcutaneously) induced locomotor activity test both doses of Zn produced reduction in the total movement time, mean velocity and stereotypic movements. Extrapyramidal symptoms such as catalepsy in animals are usually observed with conventional antipsychotic agents; but in the present study, Zn at doses of 15 and 20 mg/kg did not produce any cataleptic state in mice. The results of the present study demonstrated the anxiolytic, antidepressant and antipsychotic-like effects of Zn metal ion, which may be due to its N-methyl d-aspartate receptor antagonistic activity. Concurrent administration of a lower dose of Zn with standard existing anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs in this study showed potentiating effect, suggesting that Zn could exert beneficial role when prescribed as add-on medicine in the psychiatric illnesses. The results obtained in this study are preliminary, as further research is required to confirm the exact role of Zn metal in the investigated central nervous system disorders.
To evaluate the effect of carbimazole induced hypothyroidism and thyroxine replacement, on the growth of long bones of albino rats of different age groups. Experimental albino rats were developed with carbimazole and carbimazole plus thyroxine for a period of six weeks. At the end of the experiment the animals were sacrificed, fixed and processed to demonstrate the bony and cartilaginous parts. The ulna and tibia of both sides were measured for intact bone length & diameter and the data compared. The reduction in length and circumference observed, at the end of experiment, in ulna was 10.89%, & 11.94% and in tibia it was 12.52%, 14.81% in carbimazole treated group respectively, while in carbimazole plus thyroxin treated group the reduction in length & circumference of ulna was 1.37% & 1.88% and in tibia it was 1.86% & 3.08% respectively. They were compared to their age matched controls. The reduction in length and circumference in ulna was 5.58% & 6.25% and 6.42% and 5.88% in tibia respectively among the carbimazole treated animals while in the carbimazole plus thyroxine treated animals the reduction was only 0.63% and 3.12% in ulna and 0.91% and 1.06% in tibia respectively. The results show that hypothyroidism and its replacement therapy affects the endochondral as well as periosteal bone growth and results in reduction in length as well as circumference of long bones.
Solitary fibrous tumors (SFTs) are localized mesenchymal lesions which most frequently arise in the pleura but have also been observed in many other sites. SFTs arising from the thymus are relatively rare, however, and only a few cases have been reported to date. We report such a case in our current study.
We examined 140 patients (mean age 54.8+/-3.1 years) with ST elevation acute coronary syndrome resulting in Q-wave myocardial infarction of the left ventricle. From the first hours complex therapy of these patients comprised meldonium (1 g/day intravenously for 2 weeks then orally until 1.5 months). Therapy with meldonium accelerated restoration of left ventricular diastolic function what was in agreement with lowering of NT-proBNT concentration in blood. It was established that administration of meldonium led to reduction of number of high grade ventricular extrasystoles during first 6 hours after thrombolysis, to lowering of blood concentration of lipoperoxide degradation products. Early use of meldonium decreases probability of emergence of fatal arrhythmias and improves prognosis of hospital stage of rehabilitation of patients with acute coronary syndrome resulting in Q-wave myocardial infarction.
We propose a Bayesian approach to identify protein complexes and their constituents from high-throughput protein-protein interaction screens. An infinite latent feature model that allows for multi-complex membership by individual proteins is coupled with a graph diffusion kernel that evaluates the likelihood of two proteins belonging to the same complex. Gibbs sampling is then used to infer a catalog of protein complexes from the interaction screen data. An advantage of this model is that it places no prior constraints on the number of complexes and automatically infers the number of significant complexes from the data. Validation results using affinity purification/mass spectrometry experimental data from yeast RNA-processing complexes indicate that our method is capable of partitioning the data in a biologically meaningful way. A supplementary web site containing larger versions of the figures is available at http://public.kgi.edu/wild/PSBO6/index.html.
AIMS: Long-term glucocorticoid administration is known to induce bone deterioration. Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) signaling reportedly participates in bone remodeling. This study investigated whether GSK-3beta inhibitor could regulate glucocorticoid-induced inhibition of osteoblast differentiation in vitro or bone mass in vivo. MAIN METHODS: MC3T3-E1 osteoblasts were treated with kinase-inactive GSK-3beta mutant and 6-bromoindirubin-3'-oxim (BIO) and then exposed to 1microM dexamethasone. Survival and osteoblast differentiation of cell cultures were assessed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling, quantitative RT-PCR, and von Kossa staining. Mineral density, biomechanical properties and microenvironments of BIO- and glucocorticoid-treated rat bone tissues were analyzed using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, material testing, and histomorphometry, respectively. KEY FINDINGS: Glucocorticoid decreased levels of phosphorylated Ser9-GSK-3beta and beta-catenin in osteoblast cultures. Kinase-inactive GSK-3beta mutant and BIO treatments attenuated dexamethasone-induced inhibition of beta-catenin, Runx2 abundance, and osteoblast differentiation but suppressed glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis of cell cultures. Exogenous BIO treatment alleviated methylprednisolone-induced impairment of mineral density, biomechanical strength, trabecular bone volume, osteoblast surface, and bone formation rate of rat bone tissue. BIO treatment also attenuated glucocorticoid-induced promotion of osteoclast surface and marrow adipocyte volume in bone tissue. Bone cells adjacent to glucocorticoid-stressed bone tissue displayed strong phosphorylated Ser9-GSK-3beta and beta-catenin immunostaining following BIO treatment. SIGNIFICANCE: Inhibition of GSK-3beta abrogated glucocorticoid-induced bone loss by increasing beta-catenin- and Runx2-mediated osteoblast differentiation. Controlling GSK-3beta signaling in bone cells may be a strategy for preventing glucocorticoid-induced osteopenia.
BACKGROUND: Cebiche is a common dish in Latin America, prepared using raw fish mixed with vegetables and marinated with lime juice. The acidity of the lime juice is commonly believed to destroy bacteria and render cebiche as safe to eat. Little data exist concerning rates of cebiche-associated gastroenteritis outbreaks, although these may be high given the popularity of the dish. METHODS: We inoculated raw fish with Aeromonas hydrophila, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli to determine the effect of the cebiche preparation process on bacterial viability. Raw fish were exposed to a suspension of 1.0 x 10(8) colony-forming units (CFUs) of each organism in a 50-mL solution, prior to the addition of cebiche ingredients. A typical Peruvian cebiche recipe was used combining limes, onions, sweet potatoes, cilantro, and hot peppers marinated together for 30 minutes. A homogenized mixture of the dish was then evaluated for pH and bacterial counts at 0, 10, and 30 minutes. As much as 100 microL of inocula were streaked onto tryptic soy agar (TSA) agar plates and incubated for 24 hours. RESULTS: The initial average pH of the fish was 6.4 prior to adding cebiche ingredients and 5.0 immediately afterwards. The pH at 10- and 30-minute periods was 5.4 and 5.2, respectively. Little reduction in bacterial counts was observed at either the 10- or 30-minute time periods, with counts increasing at 30 minutes. CONCLUSIONS: The putative bactericidal role of lime juice in the preparation process is not sufficient to reduce the microbial population present in cebiche. Pathogens may remain viable after exposure to acidic conditions. The increasing popularity of Peruvian cuisine may also lead to cebiche-associated illness outside of Latin America.
Autosomal dominant juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rare disorder and so far only one family has been reported. Genetic linkage studies mapped the disease locus to chromosome 9q34 (ALS4). The diagnosis of ALS in this family is based on the clinical signs with almost exclusively lower motor neurone pathology in combination with less prominent pyramidal tract signs. Atypical features include normal life expectancy, the absence of bulbar involvement and the symmetrical distal distribution of atrophy and weakness. We performed a molecular genetic study in three families that we had diagnosed as having distal hereditary motor neuronopathy, i.e. distal spinal muscular atrophy or spinal Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome, and found linkage to the ALS4 locus. The clinical phenotype in these three families, of different geographic origin (Austria, Belgium and England), is strikingly similar to the autosomal dominant juvenile ALS family except for a younger onset age in two of the distal hereditary motor neuronopathy families. These data suggest that ALS4 and distal hereditary motor neuronopathy with pyramidal tract signs may be one and the same disorder.
In this review we summarize our recent efforts using mathematical modeling and computation to simulate cancer invasion, with a special emphasis on the tumor microenvironment. We consider cancer progression as a complex multiscale process and approach it with three single-cell-based mathematical models that examine the interactions between tumor microenvironment and cancer cells at several scales. The models exploit distinct mathematical and computational techniques, yet they share core elements and can be compared and/or related to each other. The overall aim of using mathematical models is to uncover the fundamental mechanisms that lend cancer progression its direction towards invasion and metastasis. The models effectively simulate various modes of cancer cell adaptation to the microenvironment in a growing tumor. All three point to a general mechanism underlying cancer invasion: competition for adaptation between distinct cancer cell phenotypes, driven by a tumor microenvironment with scarce resources. These theoretical predictions pose an intriguing experimental challenge: test the hypothesis that invasion is an emergent property of cancer cell populations adapting to selective microenvironment pressure, rather than culmination of cancer progression producing cells with the "invasive phenotype". In broader terms, we propose that fundamental insights into cancer can be achieved by experimentation interacting with theoretical frameworks provided by computational and mathematical modeling.
Sixteen patients with polycythaemia vera or essential thrombocythaemia were treated with interferon-alpha in order to normalize elevated platelets. Patients were followed for 6 months and the frequency and intensity of symptoms and side effects were recorded before and during the study period by the patients and by the doctor. Health-related quality of life was also assessed. The most frequently reported pretreatment symptoms were fatigue, headache and muscle pain. The intensity of fatigue initially increased during treatment and there was no relief of any of the three most frequent symptoms during the treatment period. Common interferon-related symptoms such as fever and chills were most frequently reported after one week. After one month of treatment, symptoms related to the gastrointestinal tract reached a peak. Two patients discontinued treatment during the study period. Another patient suffered severe depression after the study period when still on interferon. There was no difference between the frequency of symptoms recorded by the doctor and that reported by the patients.
Poststroke hemiparesis often leads to a vicious cycle of limited activity, deconditioning, and poor cardiovascular health. Accumulating evidence suggests that exercise intensity is a critical factor determining gains in aerobic capacity, cardiovascular protection, and functional recovery after stroke. High-intensity interval training (HIT) is a strategy that augments exercise intensity using bursts of concentrated effort alternated with recovery periods. However, there was previously no stroke-specific evidence to guide HIT protocol selection. PURPOSE: This study aimed to compare within-session exercise responses among three different HIT protocols for persons with chronic (>6 months after) stroke. METHODS: Nineteen ambulatory persons with chronic stroke performed three different 1-d HIT sessions in a randomized order, approximately 1 wk apart. HIT involved repeated 30-s bursts of treadmill walking at maximum tolerated speed, alternated with rest periods. The three HIT protocols were different on the basis of the length of the rest periods, as follows: 30 s (P30), 60 s (P60), or 120 s (P120). Exercise tolerance, oxygen uptake (V O2), HR, peak treadmill speed, and step count were measured. RESULTS: P30 achieved the highest mean V O2, HR, and step count but with reduced exercise tolerance and lower treadmill speed than P60 or P120 (P30: 70.9% V O2peak, 76.1% HR reserve (HRR), 1619 steps, 1.03 m.s(-1); P60: 63.3% V O2peak, 63.1% HRR, 1370 steps, 1.13 m.s(-1); P120: 47.5% V O2peak, 46.3% HRR, 1091 steps, 1.10 m.s(-1)). P60 achieved treadmill speed and exercise tolerance similar to those in P120, with higher mean V O2, HR, and step count. CONCLUSIONS: For treadmill HIT in chronic stroke, a combination of P30 and P60 may optimize aerobic intensity, treadmill speed, and stepping repetition, potentially leading to greater improvements in aerobic capacity and gait outcomes in future studies.
Peroxisomes are scarce in the poorly active interrenal cells of hypophysectomized animals; their number increases drastically in cells which are stimulated by corticotrophic factors. A precise correlation appears thus to exist between the steroidogenic activity of the interrenal cells and the number of peroxisomes in these cells.
A case-control study of 759 invasive cervical cancer patients and 1430 controls in Panama, Costa Rica, Colombia and Mexico enabled an evaluation of risk in relation to oral contraceptive use. Overall use was associated with a 21% nonsignificant elevation in risk, with some further increases in risk for more extensive durations of use. Although risks were similar for recent and non-recent users (RRs = 1.3 versus 1.2), recent long-term users were at highest risk (RR for 5+ years use = 1.7, 95% Cl 1.1-2.6). Relationships were similar for women with and without a recent Pap smear, arguing against detection bias. There was little evidence that other risk factors, including smoking and detection of human papillomaviruses (HPV), altered the effects of oral contraceptives. The risk associated with oral contraceptives was significantly increased for adenocarcinomas (RR = 2.2), whereas for squamous cell tumours the effect was minimal (RR = 1.1). These results provide some support for an adverse effect of oral contraceptives on cervical cancer risk, although possibly limited only to a subpopulation of cases.
Stringently controlled in vitro experiments are a necessary part of translational research. Cell lines are useful for exploring the underlying biology of cancer. Very few canine soft tissue sarcoma cell lines exist. This report describes the establishment of a new canine soft tissue sarcoma cell line (MBSa1) derived from a high-grade, metastatic neurofibrosarcoma. The primary tumor tissue was obtained from a 12-year-old neutered male German Shepherd Dog and was maintained in tissue culture for a minimum of 20 passages over 7 months. MBSa1 was injected into athymic mice to determine tumorigenicity. Five million cells were injected into the subcutis of the right flank of athymic nude mice. Nine of the 10 mice grew tumors 1 cm or larger within 8 weeks of cell injection. The large number of in vitro passages coupled with solid tumor formation in athymic nude mice demonstrates that MBSa1 has been immortalized and is tumorigenic.
Corpora amylacea (CA) have long been described in aging brains and in patients with neurodegenerative conditions, but their origins have been debated. It has been proposed that CA represent collections of nervous system breakdown products that accumulate within astrocytic cytoplasm. In support of this, studies have shown that CA include glycosylated material, ubiquitin, and an assortment of proteins derived from neuronal cytoplasm. On the other hand, many of these proteins are not specifically localized to neurons or astrocytes; some components of CA, such as complement proteins, are most abundantly expressed outside the central nervous system. The characteristic predilection for CA to accumulate near vessels and ependyma suggests that proteins extravasated from blood or transudated from CSF may form a component of these structures. In this study, we report the immunohistochemical localization of blood and platelet proteins thrombospondin1 and ADAMTS13 in CA from aged individuals and patients with vascular dementia. Thrombospondin1 localized to neurons, but was most prominently localized to CA. An independent serum and platelet expressed protein, ADAMTS13, was found in CA in the same brain regions. In vitro analysis shows that thrombospondin1 and ADAMTS13 form complexes together in cells and in direct protein binding assays. We speculate that CA could result from a conglomeration of interacting proteins from degenerating neurons and from extravasated blood elements released after transient breakdown of the blood-brain barrier.
Patients with schizophrenia can sometimes report strange face illusions when staring at themselves in the mirror; such experiences have been conceptualized as anomalous self-experiences that can be experienced with a varying degree of depersonalization. During adolescence, anomalous self-experiences can also be indicative of increased risk to develop schizophrenia-spectrum disorders. To date however, the Mirror-Gazing test (MGT), an experimentally validated experiment to evaluate the propensity of strange face illusions in nonclinical and clinical adults, has yet to be investigated in an adolescent sample. The first goal of the present study was to examine experimentally induced self-face illusions in a nonclinical sample of adolescents, using the MGT. The second goal was to investigate whether dimensions of adolescent trait schizotypy were differentially related to phenomena arising during the MGT. One hundred and ten community adolescents (59 male) aged from 12 to 19 years (mean age = 16.31, SD age = 1.77) completed the MGT and Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire. The results yielded 4 types of strange face illusions; 2 types of illusions (slight change of light/color [20%] and own face deformation [45.5%]) lacked depersonalization-like phenomena (no identity change), while 2 other types (vision of other identity [27.3%], and vision of non-human identity [7.3%]) contained clear depersonalization-like phenomena. Furthermore, the disorganization dimension of schizotypy associated negatively with time of first illusion (first press), and positively with frequency of illusions during the MGT. Statistically significant differences on positive and disorganized schizotypy were found when comparing groups on the basis of degree of depersonalization-like phenomena (from slight color changes to non-human visions). Similarly to experimentally induced self-face illusions in patients with schizophrenia, such illusions in a group of nonclinical adolescents present significant associations to schizotypy dimensions.
In this study, we investigated the effect of secondary Bjerknes forces on targeted microbubbles using high-speed optical imaging. We observed that targeted microbubbles attached to an underlying surface and subject to secondary Bjerknes forces deform in the direction of their neighboring bubble, thereby tending toward a prolate shape. The deformation induces an elastic restoring force, causing the bubbles to recoil back to their equilibrium position; typically within 100 mus after low-intensity ultrasound application. The temporal dynamics of the recoil was modeled as a simple mass-spring system, from which a value for the effective spring constant k of the order 10(-3) Nm(-1) was obtained. Moreover, the translational dynamics of interacting targeted microbubbles was predicted by a hydrodynamic point particle model, including a value of the spring stiffness k of the very same order as derived experimentally from the recoiling curves. For higher acoustic pressures, secondary Bjerknes forces rupture the molecular adhesion of the bubbles to the surface. We used this mutual attraction to quantify the binding force between a single biotinylated microbubble and an avidin-coated surface, which was found to be between 0.9 and 2 nanonewtons (nN). The observation of patches of lipids left at the initial binding site suggests that lipid anchors are pulled out of the microbubble shell, rather than biotin molecules unbinding from avidin. Understanding the effect of ultrasound application on targeted microbubbles is crucial for further advances in the realm of molecular imaging.
Programmable protein scaffolds that target DNA are invaluable tools for genome engineering and designer control of transcription. RNA manipulation provides broad new opportunities for control, including changes in translation. PUF proteins are an attractive platform for that purpose because they bind specific single-stranded RNA sequences by using short repeated modules, each contributing three amino acids that contact an RNA base. Here, we identified the specificities of natural and designed combinations of those three amino acids, using a large randomized RNA library. The resulting specificity code reveals the RNA binding preferences of natural proteins and enables the design of new specificities. Using the code and a translational activation domain, we designed a protein that targets endogenous cyclin B1 mRNA in human cells, increasing sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs. Our study provides a guide for rational design of engineered mRNA control, including translational stimulation.
The elevated plus maze (EPM) is an animal model of anxiety used to test the effects of anxioselective drugs. The loss of the anxiolytic effect of drugs during the second exposure to the EPM is called the "one trial tolerance" (OTT) phenomenon. The present study was designed to investigate the relationship between the OTT phenomenon and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade in the early developmental period of rats. NMDA receptor blockade was accomplished using MK-801 treatment given between postnatal days 20-30. Beginning on postnatal day 20, the rats were subcutaneously injected with MK-801 twice a day at the nape of the neck for a period of 10 days (0.25 mg/kg). Increased open arm exploration was observed in MK-801-treated rats during trial 1 (p = 0.001) and trial 2 (p = 0.003). The rats spent less time in the closed arms as compared to the saline animals in trial 1 (p = 0.006), and this time decreased further in trial 2 (p = 0.02). The fecal boli of the MK-801 group was decreased in trial 1 as compared to the saline group (p = 0.01), but was not significantly different in trial 2 (p = 0.08). In conclusion, NMDA receptor blockade using MK-801 produced an anxiolytic-like effect in trials 1 and 2. Furthermore, OTT was not affected by NMDA receptor blockade.
Germline point or small frameshift mutations of the CDH1 (E-cadherin) gene are known to cause familial gastric cancer (FGC), but the frequency of CDH1 mutations is low in Japanese patients with FGC. Because recent studies have reported germline large genomic deletions of CDH1 in European and Canadian patients with FGC, in the present study we examined DNA samples from 13 Japanese patients with FGC to determine whether similar germline changes were present in CDH1 in this population. Using a sequencing analysis, a 1-bp deletion (c.1212delC), leading to the production of a truncated protein (p.Asn405IlefsX12), was found in an FGC family; immunohistochemical analysis revealed the loss of CDH1 protein expression in the tumors in this family. Using a combination of multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) and RT-PCR analyses, we also found a large genomic deletion (c.164-?_387+?del), leading to the loss of exon 3 and the production of a truncated protein (p.Val55GlyfsX38), in another FGC family. The functional effects of the detected mutations were examined using a slow aggregation assay. Significant impairment of cell-cell adhesion was detected in CHO-K1 cells expressing Ile405fsX12- and Gly55fsX38-type CDH1 compared with cells expressing wild-type CDH1. Our results suggest that the p.Asn405IlefsX12 and p.Val55GlyfsX38 mutations of the CDH1 gene contribute to carcinogenesis in patients with FGC. This is the first report of CDH1 germline truncating mutations in Japanese patients with FGC. Screening for large germline rearrangements should be included in CDH1 genetic testing for FGC.
Photofrin II (PII) accumulates and fluoresces in the alimentary canal, anal papillae, malpighian tubules, rectum, and gastric caeca at greater concentrations (>10 microg/ml) and accumulates (fluoresces) in (along) the alimentary canal only at lower concentrations (< or =10 microg/ml). Initial experiments with larvae exposed to different osmotic conditions and PII indicated that cells of osmoregulation were most susceptible to life-threatening cell damage. Larvae that lacked anal papillae and were exposed to different osmotic conditions and PII indicated that cells of osmoregulation may not be the most deleterious site for cell damage. Larvae ligated around the neck and exposed to PII survived significantly longer than larvae ligated after the 4th abdominal segment and after the 6th abdominal segment while also being exposed to PII. Pupae are unaffected by PII at any concentration and they do not ingest during their development. These experiments indicate the midgut gastric epithelia could be the most deleterious site for cell damage caused by PII.
Unique and shared cytogenetic abnormalities have been documented for marginal zone lymphomas (MZLs) arising at different sites. Recently, homozygous deletions of the chromosomal band 6q23, involving the tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (TNFAIP3, A20) gene, a negative regulator of NF-kappaB, were described in ocular adnexal MZL, suggesting a role for A20 as a tumor suppressor in this disease. Here, we investigated inactivation of A20 by DNA mutations or deletions in a panel of extranodal MZL (EMZL), nodal MZL (NMZL), and splenic MZL (SMZL). Inactivating mutations encoding truncated A20 proteins were identified in 6 (19%) of 32 MZLs, including 2 (18%) of 11 EMZLs, 3 (33%) of 9 NMZLs, and 1 (8%) of 12 SMZLs. Two additional unmutated nonsplenic MZLs also showed monoallelic or biallelic A20 deletions by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and/or SNP-arrays. Thus, A20 inactivation by either somatic mutation and/or deletion represents a common genetic aberration across all MZL subtypes, which may contribute to lymphomagenesis by inducing constitutive NF-kappaB activation.
OBJECTIVE: Reduced antiplatelet drug efficacy occurs in conditions of increased platelet turnover, associated with increased proportions of drug-free, that is, uninhibited, platelets. Here, we detail mechanisms by which drug-free platelets promote platelet aggregation in the face of standard antiplatelet therapy. APPROACH AND RESULTS: To model standard antiplatelet therapy, platelets were treated in vitro with aspirin, the P2Y12 receptor blocker prasugrel active metabolite, or aspirin plus prasugrel active metabolite. Different proportions of uninhibited platelets were then introduced. Light transmission aggregometry analysis demonstrated clear positive associations between proportions of drug-free platelets and percentage platelet aggregation in response to a range of platelet agonists. Using differential platelet labeling coupled with advanced flow cytometry and confocal imaging we found aggregates formed in mixtures of aspirin-inhibited platelets together with drug-free platelets were characterized by intermingled platelet populations. This distribution is in accordance with the ability of drug-free platelets to generate thromboxane A2 and so drive secondary platelet activation. Conversely, aggregates formed in mixtures of prasugrel active metabolite-inhibited or aspirin plus prasugrel active metabolite-inhibited platelets together with drug-free platelets were characterized by distinct cores of drug-free platelets. This distribution is consistent with the ability of drug-free platelets to respond to the secondary activator ADP. CONCLUSIONS: These experiments are the first to image the interactions of inhibited and uninhibited platelets in the formation of platelet aggregates. They demonstrate that a general population of platelets can contain subpopulations that respond strikingly differently to overall stimulation of the population and so act as the seed for platelet aggregation.
Barrett's esophagus is a premalignant lesion in which the lower esophagus is lined with metaplastic columnar epithelium rather than the normal stratified squamous epithelium. It is a precursor lesion for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. We are studying Barrett's esophagus as a model premalignant lesion for adenocarcinoma from the standpoint of identifying biologic markers of increased cancer risk as well as therapeutic strategies for eradicating the lesion. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity in Barrett's mucosa was significantly higher than in normal adjacent mucosa from the same patient. However, polyamine content was not significantly altered, suggesting dysregulation of the polyamine pathway. Flow cytometry is being used to assess the presence of aneuploidy and its significance in a premalignant lesion. Initial results have demonstrated that aneuploidy and dysplasia can be discordant. Cytogenetic analysis using short-term epithelial cultures established from endoscopic biopsies of the lesion has demonstrated the presence of clonal karyotypic abnormalities. The clinical significance of aneuploidy and abnormal karyotype, however, remains to be proved. Chemopreventive intervention trials have included use of 13-cis-retinoic acid. Considerable toxicity was encountered, and the lesion showed no change in extent in 11 evaluable patients. A subsequent clinical trial with a biologic endpoint used alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), an irreversible inhibitor of ODC, to test whether a low dose could produce changes in polyamine content in gastrointestinal mucosa.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, with approximately 1.2 million deaths annually. The standard-of-care in patients with advanced disease is platinum-based doublet chemotherapy. Recent advances in the understanding of biological mechanisms of tumor growth have allowed for identification of some molecular targets for cancer treatment, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). VEGF is a pro-angiogenetic factor, which binds membrane receptors, and whose intra-cytoplasmatic domain presents tyrosine kinase activity. Pathological angiogenesis promotes tumor growth and metastasis. Targeted action against angiogenesis can lead to regression or normalization of neovascular structures and to inhibition of new blood vessel growth. The most commonly used mechanism is mediated by bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody that selectively binds to VEGF and prevents interaction with its receptor. Currently bevacizumab is the only anti-angiogenic agent approved for the first-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in selected patients. In the present review, we discuss the most important trials that demonstrate the efficacy and safety of bevacizumab. We also present an overview of the types of patients eligible for this treatment and a cost-effectiveness analysis. In conclusion, the possibility of administering a treatment with bevacizumab must be carefully analyzed case by case. It is important to identify those patients who can really benefit from the use of this drug, through the identification of specific response markers.
Using transfection and gel retardation assays, we have characterized further the antioxidant response element (ARE) found in the 5'-flanking region of the rat glutathione S-transferase Ya subunit gene. The ARE core sequence (5'-GTGACAAAGC-3') is sufficient for transcriptional activation of the Ya subunit gene by metabolizable planar aromatic compounds, phenolic antioxidants, and hydrogen peroxide. When the ARE sequence is ligated to a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene and transfected into HepG2 cells, chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity is modestly inducible by the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Since the ARE is responsive to TPA and shows some sequence similarity to an AP-1-binding site (Jun/Fos recognition motif), we have explored whether members of the Jun/Fos family of transcription factors might bind to the ARE. Using in vitro synthesized Jun and Fos, binding to the ARE could not be detected, whereas Jun/Fos binding to a classical AP-1-binding site, a TPA response element (TRE) from the human collagenase gene, could be demonstrated by gel retardation assays. If the 2 A nucleotides underlined in the ARE core sequence (5'-GTGACAAAGC-3') are changed to TC, the ARE sequence (ARE-TRE) becomes a high-affinity AP-1-binding site and retains xenobiotic inducibility. Removal of the -GC- dinucleotide at the 3'-end of the ARE or the ARE-TRE eliminates xenobiotic inducibility. However, the ARE-TRE construct without the -GC- dinucleotide is still a high-affinity AP-1 site and responsive to TPA. Taken together, our data suggest that the ARE is not a high-affinity binding site for the Jun/Fos heterodimer. Functionally, however, an AP-1-binding site can resemble an ARE in its response to various xenobiotics if a 3'-GC- dinucleotide is present.
PURPOSE: To investigate the prevalence and morphologic and clinical features of posterior capsule-optic inadhesion following cataract surgery. METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, we examined 518 consecutive patients who had undergone uneventful phacoemulsification and posterior chamber intraocular lens (IOL) implantation. They were assigned into five groups based on the type of IOL used: MC X11 ASP, Rayner 920H A, ZCB00, SN60WF and KS-3Ai. Routine ophthalmic examinations were performed. Patients were followed up at 1 day, 1 week, and 1 and 2 months postsurgery. Anterior segment photography, Scheimpflug imaging and KR-1W aberrometry were conducted after the patients' pupils were dilated. RESULTS: The overall rate of posterior capsule-optic inadhesion on the first day after surgery was 215/518 (41.5%), and it decreased to 37/518 (7.1%) at 2 months postsurgery. Posterior capsule-optic inadhesion can be morphologically classified into five types with three outcomes, of which gradual absorption of the accumulated fluid predominated for all IOLs. The clinical characteristics of patients with inadhesion varied with IOL type. Notably, visual quality data (Strehl ratios and modulation transfer function) were poorer in patients with posterior capsule-optic inadhesion, especially in those with irregular forms of suspension. Four cases of capsular contraction syndrome were identified among the patients with inadhesion. CONCLUSIONS: Posterior capsule-optic inadhesion is a prevalent capsule-IOL interaction following cataract surgery. Although the accumulated fluid is absorbed in the majority of patients, its adverse effects on visual outcomes, especially visual quality in the operated eye(s), must not be underestimated in patients with persistent inadhesion.
This research studied virus removal by iron electrocoagulation (EC) followed by microfiltration (MF) in water treatment using the MS2 bacteriophage as a tracer virus. In the absence of EC, MF alone achieved less than a 0.5-log removal of MS2 virus, but, as the iron-coagulant dosage increased, the log virus removal increased dramatically. More than 4-log virus removal, as required by the Surface Water Treatment Rule, was achieved with 6-9 mg/L Fe(3+). The experimental data indicated that at lower iron dosages and pH (< approximately 8 mgFe/L and pH 6.3 and 7.3) negatively charged MS2 viruses first adsorbed onto the positively charged iron hydroxide floc particles before being removed by MF. At higher iron dosages and pH (> approximately 9 mgFe/L and pH 8.3), virus removal was attributed predominantly to enmeshment and subsequent removal by MF. Additionally, the experimental data showed no obvious influence of ionic strength in the natural water range of 10(-7)-10(-2)M on MS2 virus removal by EC-MF. Finally, EC pretreatment significantly outperformed chemical coagulation pretreatment for virus removal. The proposed mechanism for this improved performance by EC is that locally higher iron and virus concentrations and locally lower pH near the anode improved MS2 enmeshment by iron flocs as well as adsorption of MS2 viruses onto the iron floc particles.
BACKGROUND: Oral nifedipine is recommended along with labetalol and hydralazine for treatment of severe hypertension during pregnancy by most authorities. Although nifedipine is cheap and easily administered, the usage pattern among health care providers suggests a strong preference for labetalol despite lack of evidence for the same. OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy and safety of oral nifedipine for treatment of severe hypertension of pregnancy compared with intravenous labetalol. SEARCH STRATEGY: We systematically searched for articles comparing oral nifedipine with intravenous labetalol for the treatment of severe hypertension during pregnancy in any language, over Medline, Cochrane Central Register of Clinical Trials and Google Scholar from inception till February 2014. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included all RCTs that compared intravenous labetalol with oral nifedipine for treatment of severe hypertension during pregnancy, addressing relevant efficacy and safety outcomes. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Eligible studies were reviewed, and data were extracted onto a standard form. We used Cochrane review manager software for quantitative analysis. Data were analysed using a fixed effect model. MAIN RESULTS: The pooled analysis of seven trials (four from developing countries) consisting of 363 woman-infant pairs showed that oral nifedipine was associated with less risk of persistent hypertension (RR 0.42, 95% CI 0.18-0.96) and reported maternal side effects (RR 0.57, 95% CI 0.35-0.94). However, on sensitivity analysis the outcome 'persistent hypertension' was no longer significant. Other outcomes did not reach statistical significance. CONCLUSION: Oral nifedipine is as efficacious and safe as intravenous labetalol and may have an edge in low resource settings. TWEETABLE ABSTRACT: Although studies to date are few in number and small, nifedipine shows promise for severe hypertension in pregnancy.
The processing and presentation of Ag by Ag-specific B cells is highly efficient due to the dual function of the B cell Ag receptor (BCR) in both signaling for enhanced processing and endocytosing bound Ag. The BCR for IgG (FcgammaRIIB1) is a potent negative coreceptor of the BCR that blocks Ag-induced B cell proliferation. Here we investigate the influence of the FcgammaRIIB1 on BCR-mediated Ag processing and show that coligating the FcgammaRIIB1 and the BCR negatively regulates both BCR signaling for enhanced Ag processing and BCR-mediated Ag internalization. Treatment of splenic B cells with F(ab')2 anti-Ig significantly enhances APC function compared with the effect of whole anti-Ig; however, whole anti-Ig treatment is effective when binding to the FcgammaRIIB1 was blocked by a FcgammaRII-specific mAb. Processing and presentation of Ag covalently coupled to anti-Ig were significantly decreased compared with Ag coupled to F(ab')2anti-Ig; however, the processing of the two Ag-Ab conjugates was similar in cells that did not express FcgammaRIIB1 and in splenic B cells treated with a FcgammaRII-specific mAb to block Fc binding. Internalization of monovalent Ag by B cells was reduced in the presence of whole anti-Ig as compared with F(ab')2 anti-Ig, but the internalized Ag was correctly targeted to the class II peptide loading compartment. Taken together, these results indicate that the FcgammaRIIB1 is a negative regulator of the BCR-mediated Ag-processing function.
The mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON), produced by several Fusarium spp., acts as a virulence factor and is essential for symptom development after initial wheat infection. Accumulating evidence shows that the production of this secondary metabolite can be triggered by diverse environmental and cellular signals, implying that it might have additional roles during the life cycle of the fungus. Here, we review data that position DON in the saprophytic fitness of Fusarium, in defense and in the primary C and N metabolism of the plant and the fungus. We combine the available information in speculative models on the role of DON throughout the interaction with the host, providing working hypotheses that await experimental validation. We also highlight the possible impact of control measures in the field on DON production and summarize the influence of abiotic factors during processing and storage of food and feed matrices. Altogether, we can conclude that DON is a very important compound for Fusarium to cope with a changing environment and to assure its growth, survival, and production of toxic metabolites in diverse situations.
The following is an account of a small pilot study conducted over a 3-month period which ascertained the views of staff nurses and students about the mentoring process. In particular, whether the possession of a teaching qualification influences the effectiveness of mentors. The research was conducted in a district general hospital in North Wales. The findings demonstrate that staff nurses with a teaching and assessing qualification consistently rate themselves as more effective and supportive than those without. Other findings show that students consistently rate their mentors positively irrespective of whether they held a teaching and assessing qualification and that students rate their mentors more positively than the mentors themselves. Although these findings are not generalizable in the accepted sense they may be applicable to other practice settings. The findings and discussion indicate several implications for future practice including the need for: More consistency in practice regarding the nature and purpose of mentorship Clear criteria and selection processes for potential mentors, including more extensive use of the Measuring Mentor Potential (MMP) scale as a predictive tool A review of current mentor preparation programmes to align them with the needs of diploma and degree students and to ensure comparability of standards throughout the UK More discussion regarding the nature and purpose of mentorship including further examination of a range of mentorship models.
The development and successful application of high-throughput technologies are transforming biological research. The large quantities of data being generated by these technologies have led to the emergence of systems biology, which emphasizes large-scale, parallel characterization of biological systems and integration of fragmentary information into a coherent whole. Complementing the reductionist approach that has dominated biology for the last century, mathematical modeling is becoming a powerful tool to achieve an integrated understanding of complex biological systems and to guide experimental efforts of engineering biological systems for practical applications. Here I give an overview of current mainstream approaches in modeling biological systems, highlight specific applications of modeling in various settings, and point out future research opportunities and challenges.
A new study shows that during shift changes, physicians tend to spend more time discussing cases at the beginning of the hand-off session than toward the end, regardless of the complexity of the case. In an analysis of 23 hand-off sessions involving 262 patients in an ICU setting, the researchers report that for hand-off sessions involving medium-sized groups of 11 patients, the time spent per case steadily declined as physicians moved down the list of patients, which was ordered by room number. While the study was done in the ICU, experts say the results are applicable to the ED as well as other hospital units. People tend to rush at the end of a hand-off session, they say. Researchers report that even when physicians are very experienced, they spend about 50% more time discussing cases at the beginning of a hand-off than on those that occur near the end. The problem impacts both nurses and physicians, say researchers, but they say it can be remedied easily. They advise clinicians handing-off patients to identify the cases that require the most time, and discuss them first.
INTRODUCTION: Similarities of the rat to the human placenta make rat pregnancy models relevant to the study of human gestational diseases. Understanding of species differences is necessary to extrapolate from animal models to humans. We observed alpha-smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA) expression in rat endovascular trophoblasts (EVasT) and investigated the spatial and temporal expression of smooth muscle (SM) proteins and their potential function in remodeled spiral artery. METHODS: Rat placentas were examined from gestational day 13 to term, and were immunostained for cytokeratin, alphaSMA, alpha heavy chain of SM myosin, non-muscle myosin, Rho proteins, regulators of SM gene expression, myocardin, an early marker of SM differentiation and endothelin receptors A and B (ETA, ETB). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was performed. Modified spiral artery rings were studied ex vivo for endothelin-1- induced contraction. RESULTS: EVasT expressed SM proteins co-localizing with cytokeratin confirming their trophoblastic origin from gestational day 13 to term. Thin fibers, consistent with actin fibers, were observed by TEM, in the cellular localization of alphaSMA in EVasT. Functional experiments revealed that addition of 10(-7) M endothelin-1 ex vivo reduced vascular lumen area by 11.1% +/- 1.8% compared with control. This effect was reduced to only 1.0 +/- 1.7% with ETA antagonist, and to 5.4 +/- 1.7% contraction by ETB antagonist, p < 0.002, for all. DISCUSSION: The expression of SM proteins in EVasT along with the contractibility of the rat remodeled spiral artery ex vivo, suggest that some vascular tone is potentially maintained by endothelin-1, and may play a role in situations of dysregulation of the vasoactive systems.
A continuing education project for registered nurses in a state psychiatric hospital was implemented collaboratively by a nurse administrator and two nurse consultants. This program sought to enhance the nurses' knowledge of psychiatric-mental health nursing practice and prepare them to take the American Nurses Association certification examination for psychiatric-mental health nursing. The project was based on the premise that the nursing departments that offer educational services for their nurses foster professional competency and maintain current standards of nursing care. Twenty-one registered nurses volunteered for and completed the 16-week program. Improvements in their knowledge base were evidenced by mean test scores. A t-test analysis indicated a significant difference. The pretest mean score was 70.2%, the posttest mean score 79.4%. Mean scores varied with the education level of the nurses.
Transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8) ion channels mediate the detection of noxious and innocuous cold and are expressed by primary sensory neurons, but little is known about the processing of the TRPM8-mediated cold information within the trigeminal sensory nuclei (TSN) and the spinal dorsal horn (DH). To address this issue, we characterized TRPM8-positive (+) neurons in the trigeminal ganglion and investigated the distribution of TRPM8+ axons and terminals, and their synaptic organization in the TSN and in the DH using light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry in transgenic mice expressing a genetically encoded axonal tracer in TRPM8+ neurons. TRPM8 was expressed in a fraction of small myelinated primary afferent fibers (23.7%) and unmyelinated fibers (76.3%), suggesting that TRPM8-mediated cold is conveyed via C and Adelta afferents. TRPM8+ axons were observed in all TSN, but at different densities in the dorsal and ventral areas of the rostral TSN, which dominantly receive sensory afferents from intra- and peri-oral structures and from the face, respectively. While synaptic boutons arising from Adelta and non-peptidergic C afferents usually receive many axoaxonic contacts and form complex synaptic arrangements, TRPM8+ boutons arising from afferents of the same classes of fibers showed a unique synaptic connectivity; simple synapses with one or two dendrites and sparse axoaxonic contacts. These findings suggest that TRPM8-mediated cold is conveyed via a specific subset of C and Adelta afferent neurons and is processed in a unique manner and differently in the TSN and DH.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cytokeratin 17 (CK17) expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) both in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: Comparative proteomic analysis of an in vitro cellular carcinogenesis model of OSCC (including a line of human immortalized oral epithelia cells (HIOECs), a line of cancerous HB96 cells and another kind of cells (HB56 cells) at the early stage of carcinogenesis was performed to identify differentially expressed proteins. CK17 was further validated in vitro (cellular carcinogenesis model and other three OSCC lines) and in vivo (tissues from six healthy persons and 30 primary OSCC patients) by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry respectively. RESULTS: Increased CK17 expression was identified by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and liquid chromatography-tandem mass chromatography in the HB56 and HB96 cells over HIOECs. Western blotting confirmed the increased CK17 expression in the HB56, HB96 cells and other three OSCC lines. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the increased CK17 expression in the cancerous tissues from OSCC patients compared with the paired adjacent non-malignant epithelia. CONCLUSION: Increased CK17 expression may play an important role in the carcinogenesis progression of OSCC; however, further studies on the molecular function of CK17 are encouraged to clear the precise mechanism of CK17 in OSCC.
Organism usually undergoes an exposure of environmental pollution after a maternal exposure before birth. Traditional toxicological studies often initiated with rotifer neonates derived from the unexposed mothers while ignoring the pre-exposure (maternal exposure). The present study assessed the effect of dimethoate on the reproduction of the rotifer Brachionus calyciflorus, considering how the pre-exposure occurred in the parental generation influenced the subsequent impact. The F0 generation rotifers were exposed to the pesticide at five concentrations until the first F1 generation rotifers were reproduced. The neonates (F1 generation) were then exposed to the pesticide at the corresponding concentrations. The offspring reproduction, the time begins to reproduce, the duration of the reproductive period and the lifespan of the F1 generation rotifers were evaluated. Our results indicated that dimethoate influenced the maturation and reproduction of the rotifers. The highest concentration (1.8 mg L(-1)) of dimethoate caused an inhibition in the offspring reproduction, shortened the life span and reduced the duration of the reproductive period. In addition, of particular interest in our study was that reproduction is also accelerated by the lowest concentration (0.2 mg L(-1)). However, the pre-exposure had a significant effect on the subsequent impact. The dimethoate pre-exposure increased the impacts when the F1 generation rotifers were exposed to the substance, even at the same concentrations as in pre-exposure. It suggests that the maternal exposure history before birth is also important and has the long-lasting consequence from one generation to another.
Metabolic profiling studies aim to achieve broad metabolome coverage in specific biological samples. However, wide metabolome coverage has proven difficult to achieve, mostly because of the diverse physicochemical properties of small molecules, obligating analysts to seek multiplatform and multimethod approaches. Challenges are even greater when it comes to applications to tissue samples, where tissue lysis and metabolite extraction can induce significant systematic variation in composition. We have developed a pipeline for obtaining the aqueous and organic compounds from diseased arterial tissue using two consecutive extractions, followed by a different untargeted UPLC-MS analysis method for each extract. Methods were rationally chosen and optimized to address the different physicochemical properties of each extract: hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) for the aqueous extract and reversed-phase chromatography for the organic. This pipeline can be generic for tissue analysis as demonstrated by applications to different tissue types. The experimental setup and fast turnaround time of the two methods contributed toward obtaining highly reproducible features with exceptional chromatographic performance (CV % < 0.5%), making this pipeline suitable for metabolic profiling applications. We structurally assigned 226 metabolites from a range of chemical classes (e.g., carnitines, alpha-amino acids, purines, pyrimidines, phospholipids, sphingolipids, free fatty acids, and glycerolipids) which were mapped to their corresponding pathways, biological functions and known disease mechanisms. The combination of the two untargeted UPLC-MS methods showed high metabolite complementarity. We demonstrate the application of this pipeline to cardiovascular disease, where we show that the analyzed diseased groups (n = 120) of arterial tissue could be distinguished based on their metabolic profiles.
Gene amplification is one of the common mechanisms that activate oncogenes. In this study, we used single nucleotide polymorphism array to analyze genome-wide DNA copy number alterations in 31 high-grade ovarian serous carcinomas, the most lethal gynecologic neoplastic disease in women. We identified an amplicon at 19p13.12 in 6 of 31 (19.5%) ovarian high-grade serous carcinomas. This amplification was validated by digital karyotyping, quantitative real-time PCR, and dual-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis. Comprehensive mRNA expression analysis of all 34 genes within the minimal amplicon identified Notch3 as the gene that showed most significant overexpression in amplified tumors compared with nonamplified tumors. Furthermore, Notch3 DNA copy number is positively correlated with Notch3 protein expression based on parallel immunohistochemistry and FISH studies in 111 high-grade tumors. Inactivation of Notch3 by both gamma-secretase inhibitor and Notch3-specific small interfering RNA suppressed cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in the cell lines that overexpressed Notch3 but not in those with minimal amount of Notch3 expression. These results indicate that Notch3 is required for proliferation and survival of Notch3-amplified tumors and inactivation of Notch3 can be a potential therapeutic approach for ovarian carcinomas.
Mutations of the p53 tumor suppressor gene are common in hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Detection of mutations by sequencing provides more information than immunohistochemical staining, but the equipment needed and the time required make it less practical for use in large-scale studies or in studies in developing countries. The degree of correlation between results obtained with these two methods has been studied in various tumors but has not been well-established in human HCCs. Paraffin sections of HCCs of 28 patients from Qidong, China were immunohistochemically stained using monoclonal antibody to p53. In addition, exons 5-8 of the p53 gene were sequenced in these HCCs. Of the 28 HCCs, nine had 0-9% of nuclei stained for p53, and 19 had 50-95% stained. Mutations in p53 exons 5-8 were found in 17/28 (61%) HCCs, including 15 at codon 249 (exon 7), one at codon 198 (exon 6), and one at codon 175 (exon 5). Among these 17 cases with p53 mutations, 16 cases (94%) had 50-95% of nuclei stained. Among 11 HCCs with no mutations by sequencing, 8 were also negative by immunohistochemistry (0-9% of nuclei stained) (73%) (the five HCCs with no staining whatsoever all had wild-type p53). Immunohistochemical staining to detect p53 mutations in human HCCs detected most mutations that were detected by sequencing (94% sensitivity, 73% specificity), and this method is therefore suitable when sequencing cannot be performed.
K+ deficiency has been linked to a loss of K+ from muscle associated with a decrease in ouabain binding and K(+)-dependent phosphatase activity. This study aimed to quantitate the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha- and beta-isoform-specific responses to hypokalemia in vivo in heart, skeletal muscle, and brain at pre- and posttranslational levels. Two-week dietary K+ restriction resulted in decreases in alpha 2-mRNA in heart and skeletal muscle to 0.60 and 0.65, and in alpha 2-protein abundance to 0.38 and 0.18 of control, respectively. The decrease in alpha 2-protein was greater than the decrease in mRNA in both tissues, suggesting translational and/or posttranslational mechanism(s) of regulation as well as pretranslational regulation in response to hypokalemia. K(+)-dependent p-nitrophenyl phosphatase (pNPPase) activity decreased in heart and skeletal muscle to 0.67 and 0.58, respectively. There were no changes in alpha 1-. or beta-mRNA or protein levels in skeletal muscle or heart. In brain, there was a similar pattern of regulation. While brain alpha 2-mRNA did not change in hypokalemia, protein levels decreased to 0.72 of control. In conclusion, hypokalemia is associated with a large decrease in expression of the alpha 2-isoform of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase. These results support the hypothesis that in skeletal and heart muscle hypokalemia induces a decrease in Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity (measured as K(+)-dependent pNPPase activity) by specifically decreasing the expression of the alpha 2-isoform of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It is shown that acyl-CoA binding protein (ACBP), in contrast with fatty acid binding protein (FABP), stimulates the synthesis of long-chain acyl-CoA esters by mitochondria. ACBP effectively opposes the product feedback inhibition of the long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase by sequestration of the synthesized acyl-CoA esters. Feedback inhibition of microsomal long-chain acyl-CoA synthesis could not be observed, due to the formation of small acyl-CoA binding vesicles during preparation and/or incubation. Microsomal membrane preparations are therefore unsuitable for studying feedback inhibition of long-chain acyl-CoA synthesis. ACBP was found to have a strong attenuating effect on the long-chain acyl-CoA inhibition of both acetyl-CoA carboxylase and mitochondrial adenine nucleotide translocase. Both processes were unaffected by the presence of long-chain acyl-CoA esters when the ratio of long-chain acyl-CoA to ACBP was below 1, independent of the acyl-CoA concentration used. It is therefore not the acyl-CoA concentration as such which is important from a regulatory point of view, but the ratio of acyl-CoA to ACBP. The cytosolic ratio of long-chain acyl-CoA to ACBP was shown to be well below 1 in the liver of fed rats. ACBP could compete with the triacylglycerol-synthesizing pathway, but not with the phospholipid-synthesizing enzymes, for acyl-CoA esters. Furthermore, in contrast with FABP, ACBP was able to protect long-chain acyl-CoA esters against hydrolysis by microsomal acyl-CoA hydrolases. The results suggest that long-chain acyl-CoA esters synthesized for either triacylglycerol synthesis or beta-oxidation have to pass through the acyl-CoA/ACBP pool before utilization. This means that acyl-CoA synthesized by microsomal or mitochondrial synthetases is uniformly available in the cell. It is suggested that ACBP has a duel function in (1) creating a cytosolic pool of acyl-CoA protected against acyl-CoA hydrolases, and (2) protecting vital cellular processes from being affected by long-chain acyl-CoA esters.
The CX3CR1/CX3CL1 axis is involved in the metastasis and prognosis of many types of cancer; however, whether CX3CR1 is expressed in gastric cancer cells and whether it participates in gastric cancer metastasis remain unknown. We investigated the expression of CX3CR1 in gastric cancer tissues and nonneoplastic gastric tissues in vivo and in gastric cancer cell lines and a gastric epithelial cell line in vitro, and then the functional roles of CX3CR1 in cellular metastasis, proliferation and survival were explored. We observed that CX3CR1 was highly expressed in gastric cancer tissues in vivo and was related to lymph node metastasis, higher clinical TNM stage and larger tumor size. In vitro, CX3CR1 overexpression promoted gastric cancer cell migration, invasion, proliferation and survival. Additionally, different from several chemokine receptors, CX3CR1 was also expressed in non-neoplastic gastric tissues and in gastric epithelial cells and played a functional role in vitro. Notably, gastric cancer tissues expressed higher CX3CR1 compared with that in the non-neoplastic gastric tissues in vivo, while in vitro, CX3CR1 expresssion in the gastric cancer cell lines was equivalent or significantly lower than that in the gastric epithelial cell line, which suggests that the high expression of CX3CR1 in gastric cancer in vivo might be induced, not constitutive. Altogether, our findings suggest that on the one hand overexpression of CX3CR1 promoted gastric cancer metastasis, proliferation and survival; on the other hand, appropriate expression of CX3CR1 in normal gastric tissues may play a physiological role in tissue remodeling after injury and/or epithelial renewal. Additionally, the tumor microenvironment may play an important role in the high expression of CX3CR1 in gastric cancer cells.
We report a 61-year-old woman with a 1-year-history of widespread erythematous scaly patches and plaques as well as red/purplish to brownish confluent plaques. Ulcerated lesions with a purulent, hemorrhagic exudate and sharp elevated borders were located on the lower extremities. Diagnosis of granulomatous mycosis fungoides was supported by histopathologic findings showing an inflammatory reaction with epithelioid and large giant cells associated with features characteristic of mycosis fungoides. Immunohistochemical studies showed a T-helper phenotype of neoplastic cells (CD3+, CD4+, CD45RO+) with expression of the cytotoxic protein TIA-1. Molecular analysis of TCRgamma gene demonstrated a monoclonal rearrangement in the lesional skin. After failure of conventional therapies, 6 cycles of gemcitabine treatment produced partial remission of cutaneous lesions and stable disease throughout a 12-month follow-up period, suggesting that gemcitabine is a promising chemotherapeutic agent for refractory mycosis fungoides.
Steroid receptors are hormone-activated transcription factors, the expression and activities of which are also highly dependent upon posttranslational modifications including phosphorylation. The remarkable number of phosphorylation sites in these receptors and the wide variety of kinases participating in their phosphorylation facilitate integration between cell-signaling pathways and steroid receptor action. Sites have been identified in all of the functional domains although the sites are predominantly in the amino-terminal portions of the receptors. Regulation of function is receptor specific, site specific, and often dependent upon activation of a specific cell-signaling pathway. This complexity explains, in part, the early difficulties in identifying roles for phosphorylation in receptor function. With increased availability of phosphorylation site-specific antibodies and better means to measure receptor activities, numerous roles for site-specific phosphorylation have been identified including sensitivity of response to hormone, DNA binding, expression, stability, subcellular localization, and protein-protein interactions that determine the level of regulation of specific target genes. This review summarizes current knowledge regarding receptor phosphorylation and regulation of function. As functional assays become more sophisticated, it is likely that additional roles for phosphorylation in receptor function will be identified.
The capacity to promote cell dedifferentiation is widespread among plant species. We have recently reported that an AP2/ERF transcription factor WOUND INDUCED DEDIFFERENTIATION 1 (WIND1) and its paralogues, WIND2-4, promote cell dedifferentiation in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Phylogenetic analyses suggest that AtWIND1 orthologs are found in land plants and that the shared peptide motifs between Arabidopsis paralogues are conserved in putative orthologs in dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous plants. In this study we show that AtWIND1 chemically induced rapeseed and tomato, as well as AtWIND1 constitutively expressed tobacco, promote callus formation on phytohormone-free medium. Our results suggest that the WIND1-mediated signaling cascade to promote cell dedifferentiation might be conserved in at least several species of Brassicaceae and Solanaceae.
Greater understanding of the underlying disease process has led to the development of targeted therapeutic agents and innovative strategies in the treatment of psoriatic arthritis (PsA). This report addresses novel medications targeting the T helper 17 cell pathway, specifically those inhibiting interleukin-17A and its receptor, and discusses their role as effective therapies in the management of PsA.
The process lethality model was used to predict the thermal kill of Salmonella and Listeria innocua in fully cooked and vacuum-packaged chicken breast meat during hot-water postprocess pasteurization. Time-temperature profiles of the meat samples during treatment and D-values (decimal reduction times) and z-values (change in temperature required to change the D-value) for Salmonella and L. innocua in the same meat product were used in the prediction of lethality. The results of the model prediction were compared with those of the inoculation study for the same meat product at a 95% confidence level of up to 10(7) CFU/g for Salmonella and L. innocua. The thermal lethality predictions obtained with the process lethality model for Salmonella and L. innocua were within the 95% confidence level for the experimental data from the inoculation study, suggesting that the process lethality model was a useful tool for the determination of the kill of Salmonella or L. innocua at up to 10(7) CFU/g in fully cooked chicken breast meat products during postprocess pasteurization with hot water.
To address the conflicting reports concerning both innate and lymphokine-inducible NK activity of elderly individuals, NK activity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of 21 young (23 to 35 years old) and 43 elderly (65 to 100 years old) subjects was assessed using a 4-hr chromium release assay with K562 or Daudi cells as targets. Significantly higher innate NK cell activity was observed in elderly compared to young individuals (P < 0.001, Student t test). NK activity of both groups was enhanced to the same degree by IL-2. Although intermediate amounts of IFN-alpha (100-500 mu/10(6) cells) induced comparable maximal NK activity of both young and elderly subjects, young subjects responded better than elderly to low amounts of IFN-alpha (10 mu/10(6) cells), while higher amounts (10(3) mu/10(6) cells) reduced the NK activity of the elderly, but not young, to basal levels. IFN-alpha also expanded the range of target cells susceptible to NK activity. Untreated cells of neither young nor elderly showed activity against Daudi targets. Two-hour treatment with IFN-alpha resulted in significant activity against Daudi cells; however, this activity was significantly lower in the elderly compared to the young subjects.
We report on a case of hepatitis B virus-related polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) in a 4-year-old Turkish boy who was first admitted because of severe arterial hypertension. The diagnosis of PAN was provided by conventional renal arteriography and the child was successfully treated with intensive sequential therapy combining short-term prednisone, plasma exchange and interferon-alpha-2b. Nine years later, he had no sign of PAN, normal blood pressure and normal renal function in the absence of any treatment.
To investigate the association between overall life satisfaction and healthy lifestyle, knowledge of breast cancer, physical examination, and detection rate of breast cancer and benign breast disease in Chinese women. In a multicentered breast disease screening program in China, we enrolled 33,057 women aged 45-65 years without prior diagnosis of breast cancer. After completing an epidemiological questionnaire, all participants were examined by clinical breast examination, breast ultrasound, and mammography independently. All breast cancer cases and a selected sample of benign breast diseases were confirmed pathologically. Univariate and multivariate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to estimate the association between life satisfaction and lifestyle, knowledge of breast cancer, physical examination, and detection rate of breast diseases. Overall life satisfaction was positively associated with women's healthy lifestyle. Compared with less satisfied women, satisfied women were less likely to be smokers (OR = 0.54; 95% CI: 0.47-0.62), have more exercise (OR = 1.49; 95% CI: 1.26-1.75), eat less fried (OR = 0.60; 95% CI: 0.50-0.71), smoked (OR = 0.54, 95% CI: 0.47-0.63), pickled (OR = 0.66, 95% CI: 0.55-0.79), and grilled (OR = 0.63, 95% CI: 0.54-0.74) foods. Satisfied women were more likely to have knowledge of breast cancer (OR = 1.48, 95% CI: 1.29-1.70), and have regular physical examinations (OR = 1.11, 95% CI: 1.01-1.12). Compared to less satisfied women, we found significantly lower detection rate of benign breast diseases (OR = 0.90, 95% CI: 0.82-0.99), and lower but nonsignificant detection rate of breast cancer (OR = 0.66, 95% CI: 0.35-1.25) in satisfied women. Women with a higher overall life satisfaction are more likely to have healthy lifestyle, knowledge of breast cancer, and regular physical examination, thus resulting in a lower detection rate of breast diseases in screening.
The construction of a hydraulically operated upward pressure-jump is described. Previous instruments with a comparable rate of pressurization used helium gas to pressurize an observation cell to approximately half of the operating pressure reached with the present design. The above instrument, which can pressurize the observation cell in 1.8-3.8 ms, is safe to use and has a maximum working pressure of 30 MPa (300 atm). The device is compact in design and can easily be fitted to any observation cell capable of withstanding the transient change in pressure and of effectively damping cell resonances. The instrument finds specific application in the study of macromolecular equilibria with a large difference in volume between the equilibrium partners. This allows the system to be perturbed far from the equilibrium position at atmospheric pressure; the relaxations obtained can be analysed as essentially unidirectional processes. Kinetic data for the reverse reaction would be obtained from experiments in a conventional downward pressure-jump. A study on the kinetics of the self-assembly of the myosin thick-filament is presented as a practical example.
Endoglin (ENG) is a TGF-beta coreceptor and essential for vascular development and angiogenesis. A chimeric antihuman ENG (hENG) monoclonal antibody (mAb) c-SN6j (also known as TRC105) shows promising safety and clinical efficacy features in multiple clinical trials of patients with various advanced solid tumors. Here we developed a novel genetically engineered mouse model to optimize the ENG-targeting clinical trials. We designed a new targeting vector that contains exons 4-8 of hENG gene to generate novel genetically engineered mice (GEMs) expressing functional human/mouse chimeric (humanized) ENG with desired epitopes. Genotyping of the generated mice confirmed that we generated the desired GEMs. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that humanized ENG protein of the GEMs expresses epitopes defined by 7 of our 8 anti-hENG mAbs tested. Surprisingly the homozygous GEMs develop normally and are healthy. Established breast and colon tumors as well as metastasis and tumor microvessels in the GEMs were effectively suppressed by systemic administration of anti-hENG mAbs. Additionally, test result indicates that synergistic potentiation of antitumor efficacy can be induced by simultaneous targeting of two distinct epitopes by anti-hENG mAbs. Sorafenib and capecitabine also showed antitumor efficacy in the GEMs. The presented novel GEMs are the first GEMs that express the targetable humanized ENG. Test results indicate utility of the GEMs for the clinically relevant studies. Additionally, we generated GEMs expressing a different humanized ENG containing exons 5-6 of hENG gene, and the homozygous GEMs develop normally and are healthy.
We describe a potentially universal, simple and cheap method to prepare water-compatible molecularly imprinted polymer nanoparticles (MIP-NPs) as synthetic antibodies against proteins. The strategy is based on a solid phase synthesis approach where glass beads (GBs) are functionalized with a metal chelate, acting as a general affinity ligand to attract surface-bound histidines present on proteins. This configuration enables an oriented immobilization of the proteins, upon which thermoresponsive MIP-NPs are synthesized. The GBs play the role of both a reactor and a separation column since, after synthesis, the MIP-NPs are released from the support by a simple temperature change, resulting in protein-free polymers. The resulting MIP-NPs are endowed with improved binding site homogeneity, since the binding sites have the same orientation. Moreover, they are stable (no aggregation) in a buffer solution for prolonged storage time and exhibit apparent dissociation constants in the nanomolar range, with little or no cross-reactivity toward other proteins.
A simple and efficient ambient ionization method based on paper spray combined with tandem mass spectrometry allows rapid detection and quantitation of various contaminants (clenbuterol, melamine, plasticizer and sudan red) in various foodstuffs (e.g., meat, milk, sports drinks and chili powder).
The macrophage is the natural niche of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. In order to combat oxidative and nitrosative stresses and persist in macrophages successfully, M. tuberculosis is endowed with a very efficient antioxidant complex. Amongst these antioxidant enzymes, TpX is the only one in M. tuberculosis with sequence homology to thiol peroxidase. Previous reports have demonstrated that the M. tuberculosis TpX protein functions as a peroxidase in vitro. It is the dominant antioxidant which protects M. tuberculosis against oxidative and nitrosative stresses. The level of the protein increases in oxidative stress. To determine the roles of tpx gene in M. tuberculosis survival and virulence in vivo, we constructed an M. tuberculosis strain lacking the gene. The characteristics of the mutant were examined in an in vitro stationary phase model, in response to stresses; in murine bone marrow derived macrophages and in an acute and an immune resistant model of murine tuberculosis. The tpx mutant became sensitive to H(2)O(2) and NO compared to the wild type strain. Enzymatic analysis using bacterial extracts from the WT and the tpx mutant demonstrated that the mutant contains reduced peroxidase activity. As a result of this, the mutant failed to grow and survive in macrophages. The growth deficiency in macrophages became more pronounced after interferon-gamma activation. In contrast, its growth was significantly restored in the macrophages of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS or NOS2) knockout mice. Moreover, the tpx mutant was impaired in its ability to initiate an acute infection and to maintain a persistent infection. Its virulence was attenuated. Our results demonstrated that tpx is required for M. tuberculosis to deal with oxidative and nitrosative stresses, to survive in macrophages and to establish acute and persistent infections in animal tuberculosis models.
Oligodendrogliomas are a distinct subgroup of brain tumors with a fairly favorable clinical prognosis. However, these tumor exhibit varying degrees of heterogeneity and their clinical behavior is therefore not always the same. For this reason, genetic markers have been developed to further guide the clinical treatment. One such marker, the 1p and 19q chromosomal deletions, has been well documented in a subset of patients with oligodendrogliomas. Most importantly, patients who exhibit these chromosomal deletions respond favorably to chemotherapy. This article reviews the evidence describing the association of such deletions with a favorable response to chemotherapy and improved prognosis of patients with oligodendrogliomas. In addition, attempts to elucidate the molecular mechanisms behind the biologic behavior of these tumors are further explored.
Dairy cattle with clinical mastitis caused by Escherichia coli exhibit a wide range of disease severity, from mild, with only local inflammatory changes of the mammary gland, to severe, with significant systemic derangement. The present study was designed to examine the relationship between serotype and virulence genes of E. coli mastitis isolates, different levels of systemic disease severity, and farm from which the E. coli strain was obtained. One hundred twenty-three E. coli milk isolates were obtained from cows with clinical mastitis of varying systemic disease severity from 6 different farms. No predominant serotype was identified by farm or by systemic disease severity; however, the most frequent serotype, O158:NM (n = 3), was isolated from cows in the moderate severity group. Virulence genes evaluated were identified infrequently and were not associated with systemic disease severity. Evaluation of genetic similarity showed no clustering assigned by farm or mastitis severity based on systemic disease signs. We concluded that a high degree of genotypic variability is characteristic of E. coli strains causing clinical mastitis within and between different farms and systemic severity groups, and that specific cow factors probably play a more important role in determining systemic disease severity.
In a natural mating system, the sexual behavior of birds has an important role in fertility success. Non-competitive mating system provides special conditions to study gander-goose interactions. Behavioral and physiological data from a domestic geese breeding flock was used to determine interrelationships between mating activity (MA) parameters, sperm penetration assay (SPA), plasma testosterone (T) concentration, and fertility (F). Moreover, variation in the frequency of gander-goose interactions during the intensive breeding period and the diurnal rhythm (short day - 10L:14D) were evaluated. The 2-/3-year-old ganders (n=15) and 1-/3-year-old geese (1male symbol:4female symbol) were observed. On the basis of successful copulation (SCop), groups of ganders with low (33.3%), intermediate (40%), and high (26.7%) frequency were categorized. Frequency of SCop was greater in the morning than in the afternoon. For the entire breeding period, SPA results obtained for the low frequency group were less than for the intermediate group. Fertility success for ganders from both low and intermediate groups was similar. There was a lack of association between MA, plasma T concentration, and SPA results. However, SCop was positively correlated with fertility. It is recommended that SCop be considered as a prognostic parameter for monitoring of ganders' reproductive potential. It is recommended that the sexual behavior of ganders be evaluated before the 1200h of the day. The SCop with an average frequency of 0.4-0.8 times during the day light hours appears to be associated with fertility results that are satisfactory for geese husbandry. Additionally, the SPA may be considered for identification of ganders with poor reproductive potential to facilitate the decision of changes in harem social structure during the first half of the breeding season.
This paper reports a pharmacophylogenetic study of a medicinal plant family, Ranunculaceae, investigating the correlations between their phylogeny, chemical constituents, and pharmaceutical properties. Phytochemical, ethnopharmacological, and pharmacological data were integrated in the context of the systematics and molecular phylogeny of the Ranunculaceae. The chemical components of this family included several representative metabolic groups: benzylisoquinoline alkaloids, ranunculin, triterpenoid saponin, and diterpene alkaloids, among others. Ranunculin and magnoflorine were found to coexist in some genera. The pharmacophylogenetic analysis, integrated with therapeutic information, agreed with the taxonomy proposed previously, in which the family Ranunculaceae was divided into five sub-families: Ranunculoideae, Thalictroideae, Coptidoideae, Hydrastidoideae, and Glaucidioideae. It was plausible to organize the sub-family Ranunculoideae into ten tribes. The chemical constituents and therapeutic efficacy of each taxonomic group were reviewed, revealing the underlying connections between phylogeny, chemical diversity, and clinical use, which should facilitate the conservation and sustainable utilization of the pharmaceutical resources derived from the Ranunculaceae.
Nano-delivery systems have significantly evolved over the last decade for the treatment of cancer by enabling site-specific delivery and improved bioavailability. The widely investigated nanoparticle systems are biodegradable polyesters, dendrimers, liposomes, mesoporous silica and gold nanoparticles. These particles when conjugated with different targeting motifs enhance the therapeutic efficiency of the drug molecules and biocompatibility. However, the application of such systems towards the treatment of retinoblastoma (RB), a rapidly spreading childhood eye cancer, still remains in its infancy. Nanoparticle-based systems that have been investigated for RB therapy have displayed improved drug delivery to the most restricted posterior segment of the eyes and have increased intra-vitreal half-life of the chemotherapy agents highlighting its potential in treatment of this form of cancer. This review focuses on the challenges involved in the treatment of RB and highlights the attempts made to develop nano-dimensional systems for the treatment of RB.
The aim of this study was to establish a method to predict the antiplatelet effects of aspirin in vivo based on in vitro results. Aspirin in 5 different concentrations was added to the platelet-rich plasma samples, and the rates of platelet aggregation induced by collagen were determined in vitro. In addition, platelet aggregation and plasma drug concentration values were determined in vivo before and after the administration of aspirin (162 mg). The 50% effective concentration (EC50) values obtained from the in vivo and in vitro experiments were shown to have relevance, because the EC50 ratio for each subject was the same (0.23 +/- 0.03). The actual and predicted values for the rate of inhibition of platelet aggregation were well correlated (P < .0001, r = .95) when the predicted rate was determined using the present method. Our results suggest that the antiplatelet effects of aspirin can be predicted using blood samples obtained before its administration.
Constitutive or inducible clindamycin resistance can occur in beta-hemolytic streptococci due to the presence of an erm gene. The Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) has recommended a disk approximation test (D-zone test) with erythromycin and clindamycin disks and a single-well broth test combining erythromycin and clindamycin for detection of inducible clindamycin resistance in staphylococci, but only a disk approximation test for the beta-hemolytic streptococci. This collaborative study assessed two different erythromycin and clindamycin concentration combinations in single wells (1 mug/ml + 0.25 mug/ml [erythromycin plus clindamycin] and 1 mug/ml + 0.5 mug/ml) with three different brands of Mueller-Hinton broth supplemented with 3% lysed horse blood for testing of frozen panels prepared for this study. All labs performed the D-zone test as described by the CLSI. A total of 155 nonduplicate streptococcal isolates (50 group A, 48 group B, 28 group C, and 29 group G isolates) were tested; 99 isolates showed inducible resistance by the D-zone test. There were some differences noted based upon the test medium. The sensitivity of the erythromycin plus clindamycin combination of 1 mug/ml + 0.25 mug/ml was 91 to 100%, while the sensitivity of the combination of 1 mug/ml + 0.5 mug/ml was 95 to 100%. Specificity overall was 98%. The slightly higher sensitivity of the combination of 1 mug/ml + 0.5 mug/ml is recommended. This study has demonstrated that a single-well microdilution test incorporating erythromycin and clindamycin in combination is a sensitive and specific indicator of inducible clindamycin resistance and could be included in routine test panels.
OBJECTIVE: To search for proteins interacting with ARA267-alpha with the yeast two-hybrid system in order to further investigate the function of ARA267-alpha. METHODS: We screened a pretransformed human brain cDNA library with the pGBKT7-PHD-SET recombinant plasmid as a bait which express four PHD(plant homeodomain) and one SET[Su(var)3-9, Enhancer-of-zeste, Trithorax] conserved domains in ARA267-alpha. The plasmids in positive yeast clones were selectively identified by restriction analysis and DNA sequencing. The interactions were retested by yeast two-hybrid assay. RESULTS: There were about six hundreds positive yeast clones on SD/-Ade/-His/-Leu/-Trp/2.5 mmol/L 3-AT/ X-alpha-Gal high-stringency selection plates. The pACT2-cDNA plasmids in sixty-five yeast clones were isolated and thirty-five cDNA inserts were sequenced. Sixteen different genes, including DR6(death receptor-6), PIAS3 (protein inhibitor of activated STAT3)and RanBPM(Ran-binding protein in the microtubule-organizing center), were identified after BLAST in GenBank. The yeast two-hybrid retest showed that all but RanBPM were true interactors of ARA267-alpha-PHD-SET. CONCLUSION: The ARA267-alpha-PHD-SET can interact with several distinct proteins. This suggests that ARA267-alpha is a protein having multiple functions. RanBPM might be a transcriptional factor.
In isolating homogeneous populations of murine Ia antigens by SDS-PAGE we have found that immunoprecipitated I-Ak molecules from whole spleen possess an electrophoretically heterogeneous population of alpha-chains. SDS-PAGE of 3H-mannose-labeled I-Ak immunoprecipitates revealed that the alpha-chain peak was divided into three regions (alpha 1, alpha 2, and alpha 3), each of which migrated as a distinct individual band when isolated and reelectrophoresed. Only alpha 1 and alpha 2 labeled with 3H-fucose. Nonequilibrium pH gradient electrophoresis excluded the possibility that any of the species was invariant chain, but rather suggested that the subspecies were structurally related and that alpha 3 has fewer sialic acid residues than alpha 1 and alpha 2. Sialic acid differences between alpha 1, alpha 2, and alpha 3 were further suggested by SDS-PAGE and by peptide mapping of neuraminidase-treated immunoprecipitates. Tryptic peptide maps of 3H-leucine-labeled alpha 1, alpha 2, and alpha 3 were identical, indicating that the polypeptide backbone of the molecules is the same for all subspecies. Our results suggest that alpha 1 and alpha 2 have fucose and sialic acid and thus possess complex type oligosaccharides, whereas alpha 3 lacks these sugars and possess high mannose-type saccharides. The potential relationships of the alpha-chain subspecies is discussed. In addition, we demonstrate the usefulness of high-pressure liquid chromatography in the isolation of glycopeptides for their subsequent analysis.U
Cell surface analysis often requires manipulation of cells prior to examination. The most commonly employed procedures are centrifugation at different speeds, changes of media during washing or final resuspension, desiccation (either air drying for contact angle measurements or freeze-drying for sensitive spectroscopic analysis, such as X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy), and contact with hydrocarbon (hydrophobicity assays). The effects of these procedures on electrophoretic mobility, adhesion to solid substrata, affinity to a number of Sepharose columns, structural integrity, and cell viability were systematically investigated for a range of model organisms, including carbon- and nitrogen-limited Psychrobacter sp. strain SW8 (glycocalyx-bearing cells), Escherichia coli (gram-negative cells without a glycocalyx), and Staphylococcus epidermidis (gram-positive cells without a glycocalyx). All of the cell manipulation procedures severely modified the physicochemical properties of cells, but with each procedure some organisms were more susceptible than others. Considerable disruption of cell surfaces occurred when organisms were placed in contact with a hydrocarbon (hexadecane). The majority of cells became nonculturable after air drying and freeze-drying. Centrifugation at a high speed (15,000 x g) modified many cell surface parameters significantly, although cell viability was considerably affected only in E. coli. The type of washing or resuspension medium had a strong influence on the values of cell surface parameters, particularly when high-salt solutions were compared with low-salt buffers. The values for parameters obtained with different methods that allegedly measure similar cell surface properties did not correlate for most cells. These results demonstrate that the methods used to prepare cells for cell surface analysis need to be critically investigated for each microorganism so that the final results obtained reflect the nature of the in situ microbial cell surface as closely as possible. There is an urgent need for new, reliable, nondestructive, minimally manipulative cell surface analysis techniques that can be used in situ.
Two major pathways for induction of apoptosis have been identified-intrinsic and extrinsic. The extrinsic pathway is represented by tumor necrosis factor family receptors, which utilize protein interaction modules known as death domains and death effector domains (DEDs) to assemble receptor signaling complexes that recruit and activate certain caspase-family cell death proteases, namely procaspases-8 and -10. The intrinsic pathway for apoptosis involves the participation of mitochondria, which release caspase-activating proteins. Bcl-2 family proteins govern this mitochondria-dependent apoptosis pathway, with proteins such as Bax functioning as inducers and proteins such as Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L) serving as suppressors of cell death. An apoptosis regulator, BAR, was identified by using a yeast-based screen for inhibitors of Bax-induced cell death. The BAR protein contains a SAM domain, which is required for its interactions with Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L) and for suppression of Bax-induced cell death in both mammalian cells and yeast. In addition, BAR contains a DED-like domain responsible for its interaction with DED-containing procaspases and suppression of Fas-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, BAR can bridge procaspase-8 and Bcl-2 into a protein complex. The BAR protein is anchored in intracellular membranes where Bcl-2 resides. BAR therefore may represent a scaffold protein capable of bridging two major apoptosis pathways.
Mice in which the genes for growth hormone (GH) or GH receptor (GHR(-/-) ) are disrupted from conception are dwarfs, possess low levels of IGF-1 and insulin, have low rates of cancer and diabetes, and are extremely long-lived. Median longevity is also increased in mice with deletion of hypothalamic GH-releasing hormone (GHRH), which leads to isolated GH deficiency. The remarkable extension of longevity in hypopituitary Ames dwarf mice can be reversed by a 6-week course of GH injections started at the age of 2 weeks. Here, we demonstrate that mutations that interfere with GH production or response, in the Snell dwarf, Ames dwarf, or GHR(-/-) mice lead to reduced formation of both orexigenic agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and anorexigenic proopiomelanocortin (POMC) projections to the main hypothalamic projection areas: the arcuate nucleus (ARH), paraventricular nucleus (PVH), and dorsomedial nucleus (DMH). These mutations also reduce hypothalamic inflammation in 18-month-old mice. GH injections, between 2 and 8 weeks of age, reversed both effects in Ames dwarf mice. Disruption of GHR specifically in liver (LiGHRKO), a mutation that reduces circulating IGF-1 but does not lead to lifespan extension, had no effect on hypothalamic projections or inflammation, suggesting an effect of GH, rather than peripheral IGF-1, on hypothalamic development. Hypothalamic leptin signaling, as monitored by induction of pStat3, is not impaired by GHR deficiency. Together, these results suggest that early-life disruption of GH signaling produces long-term hypothalamic changes that may contribute to the longevity of GH-deficient and GH-resistant mice.
Eukaryotic DNA synthesis is thought to occur in multienzyme complexes present at numerous discrete sites throughout the nucleus. We demonstrate here that cellular DNA replication sites identified by bromodeoxyuridine labeling are relocated in cells infected with herpes simplex virus such that they correspond to viral prereplicative structures containing the HSV DNA replication protein, ICP8. Thus components of the cellular DNA replication apparatus are present at viral prereplicative sites. Mutant virus strains expressing defective ICP8 do not alter the pattern of host cell DNA replication sites, indicating that functional ICP8 is required for the redistribution of cellular DNA replication complexes. This demonstrates that a specific protein molecule can play a role in the organization of DNA replication proteins at discrete sites within the cell nucleus.
Myelination is a complex process that involves both neurons and the myelin forming glial cells, oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) and Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). We use an in vitro myelination assay, an established model for studying CNS myelination in vitro. To do this, oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are added to the purified primary rodent dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons to form myelinating co-cultures. In order to specifically interrogate the roles that particular proteins expressed by oligodendrocytes exert upon myelination we have developed protocols that selectively transduce OPCs using the lentivirus overexpressing wild type, constitutively active or dominant negative proteins before being seeded onto the DRG neurons. This allows us to specifically interrogate the roles of these oligodendroglial proteins in regulating myelination. The protocols can also be applied in the study of other cell types, thus providing an approach that allows selective manipulation of proteins expressed by a desired cell type, such as oligodendrocytes for the targeted study of signaling and compensation mechanisms. In conclusion, combining the in vitro myelination assay with lentiviral infected OPCs provides a strategic tool for the analysis of molecular mechanisms involved in myelination.
Dasatinib is a potent second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia after imatinib failure. However, some patients treated with dasatinib experience pleural effusions (PEs). The determinants of pleural effusion in long-term dasatinib treatment (median 35 months, range 1-55) were investigated in single-center data of 65 patients enrolled in global phase 2 and phase 3 trials. Of the 65 patients, 35 (54%) developed dasatinib-induced pleural effusion (a median onset time, 20 months; range 0.2-54). The first pleural effusion developed in 15 (43%) patients within 12 months of dasatinib therapy. Disease phase (P = 0.02), dose schedule (P = 0.002) and actual daily mean dose (P = 0.0002) were significantly associated with an increased risk of pleural effusion. Twice-daily administration of dasatinib resulted in significantly more patients developing pleural effusions compared with the once-daily dosing schedule, particularly in advanced disease. In addition, a strong correlation was found between actual daily mean dose and time to onset of pleural effusions in patients treated with a daily mean dose >100 mg/day of dasatinib (P = 0.01). These data emphasize the need for dasatinib dose and schedule optimization and long-term monitoring of dasatinib-treated patients to prevent the negative clinical implications of pleural effusion.
The success of molecular biology in identifying molecular pathways underlying chronic immune-mediated diseases and the rapid development of gene/cell engineering biotechnologies has resulted in the development of a number of targeted biological drugs, which have revolutionized the therapy of these diseases. Numerous data published over the last 10-15 years demonstrate a dramatic improvement in the clinical efficacy of biologics compared with conventional drugs. However, professional and public concern about serious biological drug-associated adverse events has also been growing steadily. We critically analyze recent literature on the efficacy and safety of biologics in the management of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and immune thrombocytopenia. Our analysis of benefits, resistance to the therapy, risk of infections, tumors and other serious complications related to chronic administration of biologics is based on the molecular/cellular mechanisms of their interaction with the immune system. We also address whether it is feasible to attenuate the risks associated with biologics without limiting their benefits.
Pre-eclampsia is associated with inadequate cytotrophoblast invasion and remodeling of the uterine spiral arterioles, as well as by an aberrant maternal immune response. This study determined the effect of activated macrophages and one of its products, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, on cytotrophoblast invasiveness. Coculture with human lipopolysaccharide-activated macrophages decreased the ability of immortalized HTR-8/ SVneo human trophoblast cells to invade through reconstituted extracellular matrix (P < 0.05). This effect of activated macrophages on trophoblast invasiveness was paralleled by abrogation of a 55-kDa caseinolytic activity corresponding to prourokinase plasminogen activator (pro-uPA) and an increased secretion of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI1), as determined by gel zymography and ELISA, respectively. Coculture with nonactivated macrophages did not significantly affect trophoblast invasiveness or pro-uPA and PAI1 secretion. Activated macrophages secreted detectable levels of TNF, and administration of exogenous TNF significantly decreased trophoblast invasiveness (P < 0.05), increased the secretion of PAI1 (P < 0.01), and completely inhibited the pro-uPA-associated caseinolytic activity by binding to the TNF receptor 1. Moreover, addition of up to 10 ng/ml of TNF did not increase the rate of apoptosis in HTR-8/SVneo cells. Finally, the increased secretion of PAI1 by trophoblast cells cocultured with activated macrophages was significantly inhibited when a neutralizing anti-TNF antibody was added to the cocultures. These results suggest that the aberrant presence of activated macrophages around uterine vessels may contribute to inadequate trophoblast invasion and remodeling of the uterine spiral arterioles. Thus, the presence of activated macrophages may be important in the etiology of pre-eclampsia.
Cord colitis syndrome after umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT) involves late-onset diarrhea, absence of infection or GVHD, chronic active colitis, and granulomatous inflammation that responds to antibiotics. We tested the hypothesis that Seattle recipients of UCBT had late-occurring colitis distinct from GVHD and colitis in other allograft recipients. We conducted a blinded histological review of 153 colon biopsy specimens from 45 UCBT recipients and 45 matched allografted controls obtained between day +70 and day +365 post-transplantation. Diarrhea was the primary indication for biopsy in 10 UCBT recipients and 11 controls. No histological differences were seen between UCBT recipients and controls with diarrhea or between the entire cohort of UCBT recipients and their controls. Distorted mucosal architecture and apoptotic crypt cells typical of GVHD were common in both groups; Paneth cell metaplasia and granulomas were rare findings. Chronic active colitis was present in 58% of the UCBT recipients and in 62% of controls. No UCBT recipient with diarrhea was treated with antibiotics, and all recipients responded to systemic corticosteroids. Colitis occurring after day +70 in allografted controls was related to acute GVHD, independent of the source of donor cells. We could not identify a histologically distinct cord colitis syndrome in either the UCBT or the non-cord blood allograft recipients.
Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSAS) affects 4% of men and 2% of women aged 30-65 years. It is diagnosed in the presence of excessive daytime sleepiness and an apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI) of >/=5 on polysomnography. Rhythm disturbances are common in OSAS and continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) has been shown to be beneficial. We present a case of a patient with obesity, atrial fibrillation with fast ventricular response, significant nocturnal pauses (3.9 s) and tachycardiomyopathy. A polysomnography confirmed severe OSAS (AHI=64.25). CPAP improved bradycardia and allowed for the introduction of beta-blockers. Subsequent Holter monitoring revealed better rate control with the longest pause of 2 s and the patient's left ventricular systolic function improved. CPAP prevented our patient from invasive treatment, allowed for rate control and improvement of tachycardiomyopathy. With such a high prevalence of OSAS, clinicians should be aware that CPAP may aid arrhythmia control.
The expression of class 1 knotted1-like homeobox (knox) genes affects numerous plant developmental processes, including cell-fate acquisition, lateral organ initiation, and maintenance of shoot apical meristems. The SEMAPHORE1 gene product is required for the negative regulation of a subset of maize knox genes, the duplicated loci rough sheath 1 and gnarley1 (knox4). Recessive mutations in semaphore1 result in the ectopic expression of knox genes in leaf and endosperm tissue. Genetic analyses suggest that SEMAPHORE1 may regulate knox gene expression in a different developmental pathway than ROUGH SHEATH2, the first-identified regulator of knox gene expression in maize. Mutations at semaphore1 are pleiotropic, disrupting specific domains of the shoot. However, unlike previously described mutations that cause ectopic knox gene expression, semaphore1 mutations affect development of the embryo, endosperm, lateral roots, and pollen. Moreover, polar transport of the phytohormone auxin is significantly reduced in semaphore1 mutant shoots. The data suggest that many of the pleiotropic semaphore1 phenotypes result from defective polar auxin transport (PAT) in sem1 mutant shoots, and support models correlating down-regulated knox gene expression and PAT in maize shoots.
In golden hamsters, offensive aggression is facilitated by vasopressin and inhibited by serotonin. We tested whether these neurotransmitter systems respond to modifications resulting from the stress of threat and attack (i.e., social subjugation) during puberty. Male golden hamsters were weaned at postnatal day 25 (P25), exposed daily to aggressive adults from P28 to P42, and tested for offensive aggression as young adults (P45). The results showed a context-dependent alteration in aggressive behavior. Subjugated animals were more likely to attack younger and weaker intruders than nonsubjugated controls. Conversely, subjugated animals were less likely to attack animals of similar size and age. After testing, the animals were killed, and their brains were collected to determine whether these behavioral changes are underlined by changes in the vasopressin and serotonin systems. Social subjugation resulted in a 50% decrease in vasopressin levels within the anterior hypothalamus, a site involved in the regulation of aggression. Furthermore, whereas the density of vasopressin-immunoreactive fibers within the area was not significantly altered in subjugated animals, the number of serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities within the anterior hypothalamus and lateral septum was 20% higher in subjugated animals than in their controls. These results establish puberty as a developmental period sensitive to environmental stressors. Furthermore, the results show that changes in the vasopressin and serotonin systems can correlate with behavioral alterations, supporting the role of these two neurotransmitters in the regulation of aggression.
Liver cancer is the third leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide but no effective treatment toward liver cancer is available so far. Therefore, there is an unmet medical need to identify novel therapies to efficiently treat liver cancer and improve the prognosis of this disease. Here, we report that berbamine and one of its derivatives, bbd24, potently suppressed liver cancer cell proliferation and induced cancer cell death by targeting Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII). Furthermore, berbamine inhibited the in vivo tumorigenicity of liver cancer cells in NOD/SCID mice and downregulated the self-renewal abilities of liver cancer-initiating cells. Chemical inhibition or short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of CAMKII recapitulated the effects of berbamine, whereas overexpression of CAMKII promoted cancer cell proliferation and increased the resistance of liver cancer cells to berbamine treatments. Western blot analyses of human liver cancer specimens showed that CAMKII was hyperphosphorylated in liver tumors compared with the paired peritumor tissues, which supports a role of CAMKII in promoting human liver cancer progression and the potential clinical use of berbamine for liver cancer therapies. Our data suggest that berbamine and its derivatives are promising agents to suppress liver cancer growth by targeting CAMKII. Mol Cancer Ther; 12(10); 2067-77. (c)2013 AACR.
In this report, a Passerini three-component reaction utilizing boron-containing carboxylic acids or aldehydes is discussed. The reaction was carried out in water and facilitated by the use of microwave irradiation. This methodology allowed for the efficient formation of a broad range of boron-containing alpha-acyloxyamides under mild conditions within a short time. Two series of boron-containing alpha-acyloxyamides were synthesized and subsequently screened for cytotoxicity using the MTT cell viability assay. Two potential lead compounds were found to have potent activity against the HepG2 cancer cell line, demonstrating the potential of this methodology for use in the development of novel pharmaceuticals.
Aneurysms of mediastinal systemic veins are extremely rare, usually asymptomatic and incidentally diagnosed during chest radiography. We describe the case of a giant superior vena caval aneurysm in a 14-year old male following Glenn surgery and discuss its complications and management.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Von Willebrand factor (vWf), a glycoprotein involved in blood coagulation, is synthesized by endothelial cells. Increased amounts of vWf in blood plasma or tissue samples are indicative of damaged endothelium. In the present study, mRNA expression and localization of vWf were determined in irradiated rat heart tissue. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Sprague-Dawley rats received local heart irradiation with a single dose of 0, 15, or 20 Gy. Hearts were dissected at different time points (up to 16 months) after irradiation. In a second experiment, rats were injected with the radioprotector amifostine (160 mg/kg, i. p.) 15-20 min before irradiation and sacrificed after 6 months. Immunohistochemistry was performed using a polyclonal anti-vWf antibody. Serial sections were subjected to a general rat endothelial cell immunostaining (RECA-1) or a collagen staining (picrosirius red). mRNA expression was determined by using PCR. RESULTS: In control tissue, all endothelial cells lining the lumen of the endocardium and coronary arteries, but not capillary endothelial cells, were stained for vWf. 1 month after irradiation with both 15 and 20 Gy, myocardial capillaries became immunoreactive. From 3 months onward, staining was observed also within the extracellular matrix (ECM) of fibrotic areas. At mRNA level, no changes in vWf could be observed at all time points after irradiation, suggesting that vWf deposition was not due to increased biosynthesis of the protein. In sections of amifostine-treated rat hearts, vWf staining was increased to a lesser extent. CONCLUSION: These dose- and time-dependent increases in deposition of vWf indicate the presence of damaged endothelium in the irradiated rat heart. These increases in vWf accumulation precede development of fibrosis in the subendocardial layer and myocardium of the left ventricles, right ventricles, and atria.
On the basis of accumulating evidence that obesity has a substantial genetic component, a genomewide search for linkages of DNA markers to percent body fat is ongoing in Pima Indians, a population with a very high prevalence of obesity. An initial screen of the genome (>600 markers in 874 individuals) has been completed using highly polymorphic markers (mean heterozygosity = .67). Reported here are the sib-pair linkage results for percent body fat (277 siblings), the best available indicator of overall obesity. Single-marker linkages to percent body fat were evaluated by sib-pair analysis for quantitative traits. From these analyses, the best evidence of genes influencing body fat came from markers at chromosome 11q21-q22 and 3p24.2-p22 (P = .001; LOD = 2.0). Regions flanking these markers were further investigated by multipoint linkage. The evidence for linkage at 11q21-q22 increased to P = .0002 (LOD = 2.8), peaking between markers D11S2000 and D11S2366. Evidence for linkage at 3p24.2-p22 did not change. No association was detected for any marker in the region. Although several genes are known in the 11q21-q22 region, none have been implicated as candidate genes for obesity.
We characterized and compared the diffusion of beads coated with proteins such as cytoplasmic dynein, alpha-casein, and some immunoglobulins on microtubules. Such weak binding interactions could be common and convenient for concentrating proteins at the surface of cytoplasmic structures such as microtubules. In studying the motile behavior of anionic latex beads coated with limiting dilutions of cytoplasmic dynein, we observed that in addition to active movement, 20-50% of the beads moved back and forth in a random manner. The random movement was inhibited by depletion of ATP or addition of ADP or AMP-PNP. Mean-square-displacement analysis showed that the movement is a one-dimensional diffusion along the microtubule axis with a diffusion coefficient of 2.16 x 10(-10) cm2/sec. Histogram analysis of off-axis movements suggested that approximately 60% of the diffusing beads followed the path of a single microtubule protofilament. Beads coated with proteins such as alpha-casein or a monoclonal immunoglobulin were also observed to diffuse on microtubules with a similar diffusion coefficient to cytoplasmic dynein. However, alpha-casein or immunoglobulin-bead diffusion was not ATP dependent and did not follow the paths of single protofilaments. Thus, although the environment of the microtubule surface can trap a variety of different protein-coated beads, cytoplasmic dynein's interaction is unusual in its ATP dependence and tracking on a single protofilament, which is consistent with its specific interaction with microtubules. Diffusive interactions could concentrate associating proteins and still allow for freedom of movement.
BACKGROUND: DNA sequence binding motifs for several important transcription factors happen to be self-overlapping. Many of the current regulatory site identification methods do not explicitly take into account the overlapping sites. Moreover, most methods use arbitrary thresholds and fail to provide a biophysical interpretation of statistical quantities. In addition, commonly used approaches do not include the location of a site with respect to the transcription start site (TSS) in an integrated probabilistic framework while identifying sites. Ignoring these features can lead to inaccurate predictions as well as incorrect design and interpretation of experimental results. RESULTS: We have developed a tool based on a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) that identifies binding location of transcription factors with preference for self-overlapping DNA motifs by combining the effects of their alternative binding modes. Interpreting HMM parameters as biophysical quantities, this method uses the occupancy probability of a transcription factor on a DNA sequence as the discriminant function, earning the algorithm the name OHMM: Occupancy via Hidden Markov Model. OHMM learns the classification threshold by training emission probabilities using unaligned sequences containing known sites and estimating transition probabilities to reflect site density in all promoters in a genome. While identifying sites, it adjusts parameters to model site density changing with the distance from the transcription start site. Moreover, it provides guidance for designing padding sequences in gel shift experiments. In the context of binding sites to transcription factor NF-kappaB, we find that the occupancy probability predicted by OHMM correlates well with the binding affinity in gel shift experiments. High evolutionary conservation scores and enrichment in experimentally verified regulated genes suggest that NF-kappaB binding sites predicted by our method are likely to be functional. CONCLUSION: Our method deals specifically with identifying locations with multiple overlapping binding sites by computing the local occupancy of the transcription factor. Moreover, considering OHMM as a biophysical model allows us to learn the classification threshold in a principled manner. Another feature of OHMM is that we allow transition probabilities to change with location relative to the TSS. OHMM could be used to predict physical occupancy, and provides guidance for proper design of gel-shift experiments. Based upon our predictions, new insights into NF-kappaB function and regulation and possible new biological roles of NF-kappaB were uncovered.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of uncomplicated phacoemulsification on central macular thickness (CMT) and best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in both diabetic patients without diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic patients with mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR). METHODS: Potential prospective observational studies were searched through PubMed and EMBASE. Standardized mean difference (SMD) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for changes in CMT and BCVA were evaluated at postoperative 1, 3 and 6 months. The pooled effect estimates were calculated in the use of a random-effects model. RESULTS: A total of 10 studies involving 190 eyes of diabetic patients without diabetic retinopathy and 143 eyes of diabetic patients with NPDR were identified. CMT values demonstrated a statistically significant increase after uncomplicated phacoemulsification at 1 month (SMD, -0.814; 95%CI, -1.230 to -0.399), 3 months (SMD, -0.565; 95%CI, -0.927 to -0.202) and 6 months (SMD, -0.458; 95%CI, -0.739 to -0.177) in diabetic patients with NPDR. There was no statistical difference in CMT values at postoperative 1 month (SMD, -1.206; 95%CI, -2.433 to 0.021)and no statistically significant increase in CMT values at postoperative3 months (SMD, -0.535; 95%CI, -1.252 to 0.182) and 6 months (SMD, -1.181; 95%CI, -2.625 to 0.263) in diabetic patients without DR.BCVA was significantly increased at postoperative 1 month (SMD, 1.149; 95%CI, 0.251 to 2.047; and SMD,1.349; 95%CI, 0.264 to 2.434, respectively) and 6 months (SMD, 1.295; 95%CI, 0.494 to 2.096; and SMD, 2.146; 95%CI, 0.172 to 4.120, respectively) in both diabetic patients without DR and diabetic patients with NPDR. Sensitivity analysis showed that the results were relatively stable and reliable. CONCLUSION: Uncomplicated phacoemulsification in diabetic patients with mild to moderate NPDR seemed to influence significantly the subclinical thickening of the macular zones at postoperative 1, 3 and 6 months compared with diabetic patients without DR. BCVA was significantly improved in both diabetic patients without DR and diabetic patients with mild to moderate NPDR.
AIM: Following treatment with argon plasma coagulation (APC), rectal ulceration is seen in approximately 50% of patients with haemorrhagic chronic radiation proctitis (CRP). This study aimed to assess the frequency of rectal ulcers (defined as a mucosal defect of 3 mm or more in diameter) in relation to the use of antiplatelet treatment for concomitant cardiovascular disease. METHOD: Sixty-two patients with CRP were included in this retrospective study. Patients underwent pelvic irradiation due to prostate cancer (n = 28), cervical cancer (n = 16), endometrial cancer (n = 17) or rectal cancer (n = 1). APC was performed in all patients. Control endoscopies were performed at 8 and 16 weeks after enrolment. RESULTS: Rectal ulcers were observed after APC in 35 (56%) patients. They were symptomatic in 5 and asymptomatic in 30. The 20 (32%) patients who were on antiplatelet therapy had a significantly lower risk of ulceration after APC (OR = 0.21; 95% CI 0.049-0.91; P = 0.019). The number of symptomatic ulcers (5% vs 10%; P = 1.0) and asymptomatic ulcers alone (30% vs 58%; P = 0.06) was also lower in patients respectively taking and not taking antiplatelet therapy, but these differences did not reach statistical significance. CONCLUSION: Argon plasma coagulation-related ulceration in patients treated for CRP is less common when concomitant antiplatelet treatment is administered. This preliminary finding suggests that antiplatelet therapy may benefit patients treated with APC for CRP.
Morquio A syndrome (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man #253000) is a lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase encoded by the GALNS gene. Key clinical features are skeletal dysplasia and short stature.
This article has been retracted at the request of Microbiology because identical bands for the 16S rRNA probe controls in the Northern blots were reported to correspond to experiments using different strains and experimental conditions in articles published in this journal and in Journal of Bacteriology over a period of 5 years.
Previous studies have shown that ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is associated with cardiac dysfunction and changes in sarcolemmal Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase subunits and activity. This study was undertaken to evaluate the role of proteases in these alterations by subjecting rat hearts to different times of global ischemia, as well as reperfusion after 45 min of ischemia. Decreases in Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity at 30-60 min of global ischemia were accompanied by augmented activities of both calpain and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and depressed protein content of beta(1)- and beta(2)-subunits, without changes in alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-subunits of the enzyme. Compared with control values, the activities of both calpain and MMP-2 were increased, whereas the activity and protein content for all subunits of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase were decreased upon reperfusion for 5-40 min, except that alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-subunit content was not depressed in 5 min I/R hearts. MDL28170, a calpain inhibitor, was more effective in attenuating the I/R-induced alterations in cardiac contracture, Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity, and alpha(2)-subunit than doxycycline, an MMP inhibitor. Incubation of control sarcolemma preparation with calpain, unlike MMP-2, depressed Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity and decreased alpha(1)-, alpha(2)-, and beta(2)-subunits, without changes in the beta(1)-subunit. These results support the view that activation of both calpain and MMP-2 are involved in depressing Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity and degradation of its subunits directly or indirectly in hearts subjected to I/R injury.
In four patients with unexplained, abnormal thickening of the interventricular septum as demonstrated by echocardiography, right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy revealed unexpected cardiac amyloid deposits that resulted in increased myocardial thickness and rapidly progressive heart failure. Light microscopically, amyloid was observed in the subendocardial layer, interstitium, and walls of the intramural arterioles. Electron-microscopically, the amyloid fibrils were adjacent to the basement membranes of the heart muscle cells and the vascular smooth muscle cells. Immunohistochemical typing with specific antibodies against different amyloid fibril proteins on glutaraldehyde-fixed paraffin sections revealed different amyloid types. In two patients with generalized idiopathic amyloidosis and in two others with amyloidosis in multiple myeloma, the A-lambda form was diagnosed. In a fifth patient, AA-amyloidosis was found in familial Mediterranean fever with cardiac manifestation without thickening of the interventricular septum. The amyloid deposits were located almost exclusively within the walls of the myocardial arterioles. The amount of amyloid as observed in the myocardial biopsies correlates with the rapidly progressive cardiac failure. It is suggested that in patients with abnormal thickening of the interventricular septum of unknown origin the diagnosis should be clarified by endomyocardial biopsy.
Energy transfer pathways between phycobiliproteins chromophores in the phycobilisome (PBS) core of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 were investigated. The computer 3D model of the PBS core with determination of chromophore to chromophore distance was created. Our kinetic equations based on this model allowed us to describe the relative intensities of the fluorescence emission of the short(peaked at 665 nm) and long-wavelength (peaked at 680 nm) chromophores in the PBS core at low and room temperatures. The difference of emissions of the PBS core at 77 and 293 K are due to the back energy transfer, which is observed at room temperature and is negligible at 77 K.
The ability of an experimentally experienced female California sea lion to form transitive relations across sensory modalities was tested using a matching-to-sample procedure. The subject was trained by trial-and-error, using differential reinforcement, to relate an acoustic sample stimulus to one member from each of two previously established visual classes. Once the two auditory-visual relations were formed, she was tested to determine whether untrained transitive relations would emerge between each of the acoustic stimuli and the remaining stimuli of each 10-member visual class. During testing, the sea lion demonstrated immediate transfer by responding correctly on 89% of the 18 novel transfer trials compared to 88% on familiar baseline trials. We then repeated this training and transfer procedure twice more with new auditory-visual pairings with similar positive results. Finally, the six explicitly trained auditory-visual relations and the 56 derived auditory-visual relations were intermixed in a single session, and the subject's performance remained stable at high levels. This sea lion's transfer performance indicates that a nonhuman animal is capable of forming new associations through cross-modal transitivity.
Glucocorticoids regulate a plethora of physiological processes, and are widely used clinically as anti-inflammatory drugs. Their effects are mediated by the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), a ligand-activated transcription factor. Currently, zebrafish embryos are being developed into a model system for GR research, since they are easy to manipulate genetically and their phenotype can easily be visualized because of their transparent bodies. In addition, the zebrafish GR gene shows a relatively high level of similarity with its human equivalent. First, both the zebrafish and the human genome contain only a single gene encoding the GR. In all other fish species studied thus far, two GR genes have been found. Second, the zebrafish contains a C-terminal GR splice variant with high similarity to the human GRbeta, which has been shown to be a dominant-negative inhibitor of the canonical GRalpha and may be involved in glucocorticoid resistance. Thus, zebrafish embryos are potentially a useful model system for glucocorticoid receptor research, but currently only a limited number of tools is available. In this review, we discuss which tools are available and which need to be developed, in order to exploit the full potential of the zebrafish as a model system for GR research.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The allele variant of neurokinin B and its receptor genes were thought important in regulating the human reproductive axis in many populations. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the variances in TAC3 and TACR3 genes that encoded neurokinin B (NKB) and its receptor (NK3R), individually, were associated with idiopathic precocious puberty in Chinese girls. METHODS: The genotyping method of polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism was applied in this study; the distribution of five active single nucleon acid polymorphisms (SNPs) in TAC3 (p.G34R, p. A63P, p.Q66*, p.S99P, and a mutation on 5' UTR) and four sites in TACR3 (A29V or G, G59E, S455G, and A449S or T) genes was analyzed in 267 healthy and 186 idiopathic precocious puberty Chinese girls. RESULTS: Among the nine active SNPs, only A63P in TAC3 gene showed statistical differences; the p value was 0.024. CONCLUSION: A63P in TAC3 gene was statistically associated with the puberty onset time in Chinese girls.
The osteocyte is the most abundant cell type of bone. There are approximately 10 times as many osteocytes as osteoblasts in adult human bone, and the number of osteoclasts is only a fraction of the number of osteoblasts. Our current knowledge of the role of osteocytes in bone metabolism is far behind our insight into the properties and functions of the osteoblasts and osteoclasts. However, the striking structural design of bone predicts an important role for osteocytes in determining bone structure. Over the past several years, the role of osteocytes as the professional mechanosensory cells of bone, and the lacunocanalicular porosity as the structure that mediates mechanosensing have become clear. Strain-derived flow of interstitial fluid through this porosity seems to mechanically activate the osteocytes, as well as ensure transport of cell signaling molecules, nutrients, and waste products. This concept explains local bone gain and loss--as well as remodeling in response to fatigue damage--as processes supervised by mechanosensitive osteocytes. Alignment during remodeling seems to occur as a result of the osteocyte's sensing different canalicular flow patterns around the cutting cone and reversal zone during loading, therefore determining the bone's structure.
Robotic assisted surgery (RAS) represents a great challenge for anesthesiology due to the increased intraabdomial pressures required for surgical optimal approach. The changes in lung physiology are difficult to predict and require fast decision making in order to prevent altered gas exchange. The aim of this study was to document the combined effect of patient physical status, medical history and intraoperative position during RAS on lung physiology and to determine perioperative risk factors for hypercapnia. We prospectively analyzed 62 patients who underwent elective RAS. Age, co-morbidities and body mass index (BMI) were recorded before surgery. Ventilatory parameters and arterial blood gas analysis were determined before induction of anesthesia, after tracheal intubation and on an hourly basis until the end of surgery. In RAS, the induction of pneumoperitoneum was associated with a significant decrease in lung compliance from a mean of 42.5-26.7 ml cm H2O-1 (p = 0.001) and an increase in plateau pressure from a mean of 16.1 mmHg to a mean of 23.6 mmHg (p = 0.001). Obesity, demonstrated by a BMI over 30, significantly correlates with a decrease in lung compliance after induction of anesthesia (p = 0.001). A significant higher increase in arterial CO2 tension was registered in patients undergoing RAS in steep Trendelenburg position (p = 0.05), but no significant changes in end-tidal CO2 were recorded. A higher arterial to end-tidal CO2 tension gradient was observed in patients with a BMI > 30 (p < 0.001). In conclusion, patients' physical status, especially obesity, represents the main risk factor for decreased lung compliance during RAS and patient positioning in either Trendelenburg or steep Trendelenburg during surgery has limited effects on respiratory physiology.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Diaspores of heteromorphic species may germinate at different times due to distinct dormancy-breaking and germination requirements, and this difference can influence life history traits. The primary aim of this study was to determine the effect of germination time of the two seed morphs of Suaeda corniculata subsp. mongolica on life history traits of the offspring. METHODS: Germinated brown and black seeds were sown on the 20th of each month from April to September in a simulated but near-natural habitat of the species. Phenological and vegetative traits of the maternal plants, and number, size and germination percentage of the offspring were determined. KEY RESULTS: Germinated seeds sown late in the year produced smaller plants that had a higher proportion of non-dormant brown than dormant black seeds, and these brown seeds were larger than those produced by germinated seeds sown early in the year. The length of the seedling stage for brown seeds was shorter than that for black seeds, and the root/shoot ratio and reproductive allocation of plants from brown seeds were more variable than they were for plants from black seeds. Late-germinating brown seeds produced larger plants than late-germinating black seeds. CONCLUSIONS: Altering the proportion of the two seed types in response to germination timing can help alleviate the adverse effects of delayed germination. The flexible strategy of a species, such as S. corniculata, that produces different proportions of dimorphic seeds in response to variation in germination timing may favour the maintenance and regeneration of the population in its unpredictable environment.
AIM: To observe vasculogenic mimicry (VM) in gastric cancer cells in vitro, and explore the possible underlying mechanisms by transfecting SGC7901 cells with Mig-7-siRNA and observing the impact on VM formation. METHODS: The capability of VM formation in differently differentiated gastric cancer cells were observed by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy in a three-dimensional culture system. The expression of Mig-7 was detected. The impact of transfection with Mig-7-siRNA into SGC7901 cells on the abilities of VM formation, invasion and migration were also examined. The expressions of Mig-7, phosphor-extracellular regulated protein kinases 1, 2 (p-ERK1/2) and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) in SGC7901 cells were analyzed by Western blotting. RESULTS: VM formation was observed in poorly differentiated MKN45 and moderately differentiated SGC7901 cells, but not in well differentiated MKN28 and normal GES-1 cells in vitro; Mig-7 was expressed in MKN45 and SGC7901 cells, but not in MKN28 and GES-1 cells; the abilities of VM formation, invasion and migration were changed by transfection with Mig-7-siRNA into SGC7901 cells. The formation of VM was reduced by down-regulating the expressions of p-ERK1/2 and MMP-2 protein in SGC7901 cells. CONCLUSION: Mig-7 is expressed in gastric cancer cells which are able to form VM. The formation of VM is inhibited by reducing the expression of Mig-7 in gastric cancer cells, which might be mediated by down-regulating the expressions of p-ERK1/2 and MMP-2 proteins.
The past decade has seen a tremendous increase in RNA research, which has demonstrated that RNAs are involved in many more processes than were previously thought. The dynamics of RNA synthesis towards their regulated activity requires the interplay of RNAs with numerous RNA binding proteins (RBPs). The localization of RNA, a mechanism for controlling translation in a spatial and temporal fashion, requires processing and assembly of RNA into transport granules in the nucleus, transport towards cytoplasmic destinations and regulation of its activity. Compared with animal model systems little is known about RNA dynamics and motility in plants. Commonly used methods to study RNA transport and localization are time-consuming, and require expensive equipment and a high level of experimental skill. Here, we introduce the lambdaN(2)(2) RNA stem-loop binding system for the in vivo visualization of RNA in plant cells. The lambdaN(2)(2) system consists of two components: the lambdaN(2)(2) RNA binding peptide and the corresponding box-B stem loops. We generated fusions of lambdaN(2)(2) to different fluorophores and a GATEWAY vector series for the simple fusion of any target RNA 5' or 3' to box-B stem loops. We show that the lambdaN(2)(2) system can be used to detect RNAs in transient expression assays, and that it offers advantages compared with the previously described MS2 system. Furthermore, the lambdaN(2)(2) system can be used in combination with the MS2 system to visualize different RNAs simultaneously in the same cell. The toolbox of vectors generated for both systems is easy to use and promises significant progress in our understanding of RNA transport and localization in plant cells.
Genome segments 2, 6, 8, and 9 of bluetongue virus (BTV) serotype 11, coding for P2, NS1, NS2, and P6, respectively, were cloned into pUC 8. Sizes of segment-2 and segment-6 clones indicated partial copies (55% and 80% of full length, respectively), whereas segment 8 and 9 clones represented full-length copies. Northern blot hybridizations of the clones to the 5 United States BTV prototypic serotypes (2, 10, 11, 13, and 17) revealed segment-2 clone to be serotype-specific to BTV-11, whereas segment 6, 8, and 9 clones were able to detect all serotypes to varying degrees. All clones failed to detect the related orbivirus, epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus.
Bone-formation related gene plays a critical role in bone loss induced by space microgravity, however the exact mechanism is unclear. In this study, we aim to investigate the effect of microgravity on the activity of alpha 1(I) collagen (COL1A1) gene promoter and the expression of osteoblast-related genes. COL1A1 promoter was digested by restriction enzymes resulting in three DNA fragments. The fragments were ligated with the enhanced green fluorescent protein report gene, and subcloned into expression vectors. ROS17/2.8 cells transfected by these vectors were screened by G418, and enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) positive colonies were isolated and cultured under clinostat condition. EGFP and Collagen type I expression level were detected by fluorescence intensity analysis and immunocytochemistry methods respectively. The results showed that the expression of EGFP and collagen type I was increased 24 h, 48 h after the cells were cultured under stimulated microgravity, illustrating that the activity of COL1A1 promoter might be increased. In conclusion, osteoblasts can compensatively increase the expression of type I collagen by enhancing the activity of COL1A1 promoter under short-term simulated microgravity conditions.
Isolated congenital asplenia is characterized by the absence of a spleen at birth without any other developmental defect. Isolated congenital asplenia is a rare and life-threatening disease that predisposes patients to severe bacterial infections. The first and main genetic etiology of isolated congenital asplenia was discovered in 2013. Mutations in the gene RPSA, which encodes ribosomal protein SA, cause more than half of the cases of isolated congenital asplenia. These disease-causing mutations lead to haploinsufficiency of RPSA. Haploinsufficiency of genes encoding other ribosomal proteins have been reported to cause other developmental defects in humans, and in model organisms like the fly or the mouse. About half of the patients with Diamond-Blackfan anemia, which is a well-characterized ribosomopathy, present developmental defects such as craniofacial defects, cardiac defects or thumb abnormalities. The mechanism of pathogenesis linking mutations in ribosomal proteins, which are highly and ubiquitously expressed, to specific developmental defects remains to be elucidated. One hypothesis is that the ribosome, and ribosomal proteins in particular, regulate the expression of specific genes during development.
Oncolytic virotherapy is an emerging technology that uses engineered viruses to treat malignancies. Viruses can be designed with biological specificity to infect cancerous cells preferentially, and to replicate in these cells exclusively. Malignant cells may be killed directly by overwhelming viral infection and lysis, which releases additional viral particles to infect neighboring cells and distant metastases. Viral infections may also activate the immune system, unmask stealthy tumor antigens, and aid the immune system to recognize and attack neoplasms. Delivery of live virus particles is potentially complex, and may require the expertise of the interventional community.
Anterior-posterior patterning and germ cell specification in Drosophila requires the establishment, during oogenesis, of a specialized cytoplasmic region termed the pole plasm. Numerous RNAs and proteins accumulate to the pole plasm and assemble in polar granules. Translation of some of these RNAs is generally repressed and active only in pole plasm. Vasa (VAS) protein, an RNA helicase and a component of polar granules, is essential maternally for posterior patterning and germ cell specification, and VAS is a candidate translational activator in the pole plasm. VAS is stabilized within the pole plasm in that it is initially present throughout the entire embryo but strictly limited to the pole cells by the cellular blastoderm stage. hsp83 mRNA, which accumulates in the pole plasm through a stabilization-degradation mechanism, is another example. Here, we used a biochemical approach to identify proteins that copurify with VAS in crosslinked extracts. Prominent among these proteins was the ubiquitin-specific protease Fat facets (FAF), a pole plasm component [7], but one whose roles in posterior patterning and germ line specification have remained unclear. We present evidence that FAF interacts with VAS physically and reverses VAS ubiquitination, thereby stabilizing VAS in the pole plasm.
AIM: To evaluate the long-term oncological and reproductive outcomes of patients aged 25 years and younger who were treated by fertility-sparing cytoreductive surgery (FSCS) plus adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) or observation alone for malignant ovarian germ cell tumors (MOGCT). METHODS: Records of 42 eligible female patients treated for MOGCT between 1 May 1995 and 31 December 2010 at two centers were analyzed retrospectively. A telephone questionnaire was performed to gather reproductive and menstrual history. RESULTS: One patient was treated without FSCS and two patients were lost to follow-up. The mean age of the remaining 39 patients was 18.4 +/- 3.2 years. Eighteen of the tumors were histologically pure dysgerminomas (PD) and 21 were non-dysgerminomatous tumors (non-DT). Thirteen patients (33%) presented with stage II-III disease. Optimal cytoreduction was achieved in 34 of the 39 patients (87%). Systematic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy was performed in 31 of the 39 patients (79.5%). The frequency of lymph node metastasis was 29% (9/31). Twenty-seven patients (69.2%) received ACT. Disease recurred in six (15.3%) patients, all in the non-DT group. Four of six underwent secondary optimal FSCS followed by chemotherapy. Retroperitoneal nodal recurrence was detected in two of these four patients (50%). Four deaths occurred, three due to chemoresistant aggressive disease and one due to secondary acute myelocytic leukemia. The overall survival rates for patients with PD and non-DT were 100% and 81.4%, respectively. Twenty-three of 27 patients who received ACT continued their regular menses. Sixteen spontaneous pregnancies and one pregnancy by intrauterine insemination were achieved by 21 patients who attempted conception. CONCLUSION: Either primary or secondary FSCS followed by ACT seems to be a feasible and safe approach to preserving future fertility and hormonal function in young patients with MOGCT.
Disorders caused by single mtDNA deletions are quite rare in the general population. To understand the molecular mechanism by which they come about and try to correlate the type of deletion with the phenotype of the patients, a very large cohort of affected individuals needs to be studied. We have performed a meta-analysis of 313 deletions found in CPEO, KSS and PS patients. Our results indicate that the percentage and location of the deletion show differences between these syndromes. Thus, the moment when the deletion is produced probably not only determines the affected tissues and the phenotype, but also the percentage and location of the deletion.
Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a photosynthetic bacterium which swims by rotating a single flagellum in one direction, periodically stopping, and reorienting during these stops. Free-swimming R. sphaeroides was examined by both differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy, which allows the flagella of swimming cells to be seen in vivo, and tracking microscopy, which tracks swimming patterns in three dimensions. DIC microscopy showed that when rotation stopped, the helical flagellum relaxed into a high-amplitude, short-wavelength coiled form, confirming previous observations. However, DIC microscopy also revealed that the coiled filament could rotate slowly, reorienting the cell before a transition back to the functional helix. The time taken to reform a functional helix depended on the rate of rotation of the helix and the length of the filament. In addition to these coiled and helical forms, a third conformation was observed: a rapidly rotating, apparently straight form. This form took shape from the cell body out and was seen to form directly from flagella that were initially in either the coiled or the helical conformation. This form was always significantly longer than the coiled or helical form from which it was derived. The resolution of DIC microscopy made it impossible to identify whether this form was genuinely in a straight conformation or was a low-amplitude, long-wavelength helix. Examination of the three-dimensional swimming pattern showed that R. sphaeroides changed speed while swimming, sometimes doubling the swimming speed between stops. The rate of acceleration out of stops was also variable. The transformations in waveform are assumed to be torsionally driven and may be related to the changes in speed measured in free-swimming cells. The roles of and mechanisms that may be involved in the transformations of filament conformations and changes in swimming speed are discussed.
A heavily glycosylated soluble protein was purified using a combination of lectin affinity and size exclusion chromatography from a soluble extract of uncalcified dorsal cuticle of blue crab Callinectes sapidus removed at ecdysis. Similarities in apparent molecular mass and carbohydrate composition suggest that this protein is the same species previously shown to disappear from soluble extracts coincidentally with the onset of mineral deposition in the newly exposed post-molt cuticle. The amino acid sequence of the N-terminal portion of the core polypeptide was determined and polyclonal antibodies were raised against both the purified glycoprotein and the peptide. Immunoblots of unfractionated soluble extracts taken at various times post-molt illustrated that the anti-peptide antibody recognized several polypeptides with electrophoretic mobilities that differ from the purified glycoprotein. These bands may be deglycosylation products which would not have been purified due to different lectin affinity or size. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated uniform protein distribution in the exocuticle at ecdysis, but decreased antibody binding at the interprismatic septa by 2 h post-molt. The location of the protein is therefore the negative image of the calcification pattern in the exocuticle and provides a spatial pattern to correlate with the previously reported temporal events. This strengthens the hypothesis that the glycoprotein under investigation is an inhibitor of calcite nucleation or of initial amorphous calcium carbonate accumulation.
Yeast species have undergone extensive genome reorganization in their evolutionary history, including variations in chromosome number and large chromosomal rearrangements, such as translocations. To determine directly the contribution of chromosomal translocations to the whole organism's fitness, we devised a strategy to construct in Saccharomyces cerevisiae collinear "evolutionary mimics" of other species originally differing by the presence of reciprocal translocations in their genome. A modification of the Cre/loxP system was used to create in S. cerevisiae the translocations detected in the sibling species Saccharomyces mikatae IFO 1815 and 1816. Competition experiments under different physiological conditions showed that the translocated strains of S. cerevisiae consistently outcompeted the reference S. cerevisiae strain with no translocation, both in batch and chemostat culture, especially under glucose limitation. These results indicate that chromosomal translocations in Saccharomyces may have an adaptive significance, and lend support to a model of fixation by natural selection of reciprocal translocations in Saccharomyces species.
Two key hypotheses about the structural basis of long-term potentiation (LTP) are evaluated in light of new findings from immature rat hippocampal slices. First, it is shown why dendritic spines do not split during LTP. Instead a small number of spine-like dendritic protrusions may emerge to enhance connectivity with potentiated axons. These 'same dendrite multiple synapse boutons' provide less than a 3% increase in connectivity and do not account for all of LTP or memory, as they do not accumulate during maturation. Second, polyribosomes in dendritic spines served to identify which of the existing synapses enlarged to sustain more than a 30% increase in synaptic strength. Thus, both enhanced connectivity and enlarged synapses result during LTP, with synapse enlargement being the greater effect.
Plants must adapt to their environment and require mechanisms for sensing their surroundings and responding appropriately. An expanded family of more than 200 leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinases (LRR-RKs) transduces fluctuating and often contradictory signals from the environment into changes in nuclear gene expression. Two LRR-RKs, BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1), a steroid receptor, and FLAGELLIN SENSITIVE 2 (FLS2), an innate immune receptor that recognizes bacterial flagellin, act cooperatively to partition necessary growth-defense trade-offs. BRI1 and FLS2 share common signaling components and slightly different activation mechanisms. BRI1 and FLS2 are paradigms for understanding the signaling mechanisms of LRR-containing receptors in plants.
In order to use endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) as a therapeutic and imaging probe to overcome antiangiogenic resistance for gliomas, how to enhance proliferation and targeting ability of transplanted EPCs is a high priority. Here, we confirmed, for the first time, the expression of P2X7 receptors in rat spleen-derived EPCs. Activation of P2X7 receptors in EPCs by BzATP promoted cells proliferation and migration, rather than apoptosis. In vivo, the homing of transplanted EPCs after long-term suppression of P2X7 receptors by persistent BBG stimulation was evaluated by MRI, immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. Compared to the group without BBG treatment, less transplanted EPCs homed to gliomas in the group with BBG treatment, especially integrated into the vessels containing tumor-derived endothelial cells in gliomas. Moreover, western blot showed that CXCL1 expression was downregulated in gliomas with BBG treatment, which meant P2X7 receptors suppression inhibited the homing of EPCs to gliomas through down-regulation of CXCLl expression. Further, effects of P2X7 receptors on C6 glioma cells or gliomas were evaluated at the same dose of BzATP or BBG used in EPCs experiments in vitro and in vivo. MTT assay and MRI revealed that P2X7 receptors exerted no significant promoting effect on C6 glioma cells proliferation, gliomas growth and angiogenesis. Taken together, our findings imply the possibility of promoting proliferation and targeting ability of transplanted EPCs to brain gliomas in vivo through P2X7 receptors, which may provide new perspectives on application of EPCs as a therapeutic and imaging probe to overcome antiangiogenic resistance for gliomas.
An imbalance of chloride and sodium ion transport in several epithelia is a feature of cystic fibrosis (CF), an inherited disease that is a consequence of mutations in the cftr gene. The cftr gene codes for a Cl(-) channel, the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Some mutations in this gene cause the balance between Cl(-) secretion and Na(+) absorption to be disturbed in the airways; Cl(-) secretion is impaired, whereas Na(+) absorption is elevated. Enhanced Na(+) absorption through the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) is attributed to the failure of mutated CFTR to restrict ENaC-mediated Na(+) transport. The mechanism of this regulation is controversial. Recently, we have found evidence for a close association of wild type (WT) CFTR and WT ENaC, further underscoring the role of ENaC along with CFTR in the pathophysiology of CF airway disease. In this study, we have examined the association of ENaC subunits with mutated DeltaF508-CFTR, the most common mutation in CF. Deletion of phenylalanine at position 508 (DeltaF508) prevents proper processing and targeting of CFTR to the plasma membrane. When DeltaF508-CFTR and ENaC subunits were co-expressed in HEK293T cells, we found that individual ENaC subunits could be co-immunoprecipitated with DeltaF508-CFTR, much like WT CFTR. However, when we evaluated the DeltaF508-CFTR and ENaC association using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), FRET efficiencies were not significantly different from negative controls, suggesting that DeltaF508-CFTR and ENaC are not in close proximity to each other under basal conditions. However, with partial correction of DeltaF508-CFTR misprocessing by low temperature and chemical rescue, leading to surface expression as assessed by total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy, we observed a positive FRET signal. Our findings suggest that the DeltaF508 mutation alters the close association of CFTR and ENaC.
The formation of an endothelial cell lining on the inner surface of polymeric grafts may reduce the inherent thrombogenicity of synthetic implants. Endothelial cell transplantation onto the luminal surface of grafts has been suggested as one method of creating new endothelial cell linings on grafts. The purpose of this study was to morphologically evaluate the very early events of healing (between 4 and 14 days) of 1-mm-internal-diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) grafts that were treated with autologous microvessel endothelial cells at the time of graft implantation. We evaluated the development of new intimal linings in microvascular endothelial cell-sodded 1-mm ePTFE vascular grafts and compared their healing characteristics with non-cell-treated grafts by using a rat aortic graft model. Endothelial cells were isolated from intraperitoneal fat pads of female rats and transplanted onto the grafts by using a pressure sodding method. One-centimeter-long grafts were immediately implanted as interpositional grafts in the aorta. Non-cell-treated grafts were also implanted. Grafts were explanted 4, 7, and 14 days after implantation and were evaluated by light and scanning electron microscopy. Morphometric analysis of the graft surfaces revealed the cellular coverage in sodded grafts to be 93.7 +/- 8.7% and in nonsodded grafts, 1.1 +/- 1.9%. Areas not covered by cells exhibited thrombus and bare graft. The luminal lining of cells exhibited morphological characteristics, indicating they were antithrombogenic, based on morphological criteria, and exhibited characteristics of endothelium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Members of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells (TREM) family are known as immunmodulators in several infectious or noninfectious inflammatory disorders. The information about their role in viral infections is very limited. To enlighten if there is a relation between soluble TREM-1(sTREM-1) and a viral infection, Crimean Congo Haemorrhagic Fever (CCHF), we investigated the levels of sTREM-1 in the sera of 39 CCHF patients both at admission and at recovery and compared with 40 healthy controls by using microELISA technique. Statistical analysis was made by using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) for Windows 20 programme. Value of P < 0.05 was accepted as significant for statistical analyses. Median sTREM-1 level was higher in CCHF group when compared to the control group (1,961 vs. 151.1 pg/ml, respectively; P < 0.001). In CCHF patients, sTREM-1 levels were significantly decreased at recovery compared to initial level measured at hospital admission (1,961 vs. 948 pg/ml, respectively; P = 0.019). DeltasTREM-1 is correlated with DeltaCRP, DeltaWBC, and DeltaPlt. We found that serum levels of sTREM-1 higher than 405.9 pg/ml existed as a cut off point for differentiating CCHF patients and control group with a sensitivity of 94.9% and specifity of 87.5%. It is proved that sTREM-1 is increased and correlates with the clinical and laboratory findings in CCHF, a viral infection characterized by activation of inflammation. This finding may lead new studies to enlighten the pathogenesis of infections developing by activation of inflammatory cascades and high level cytokine releases, especially. J. Med. Virol. 88:1473-1478, 2016. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Cadmium, a toxic heavy metal, expresses its toxicity by affecting several cellular functions, such as enzyme activities, DNA repair systems, redox state of the cell and signal transduction. Although the liver is a known target organ, the mechanisms involved in cadmium toxicity are not yet clarified, especially during prenatal development. Here we consider the effects of cadmium on viability, proliferation, adhesion and defence mechanisms in primary adult and fetal rat hepatocytes. Fetal hepatocytes are less sensitive to cadmium toxicity, they appear to be unaffected or even stimulated by treatments that strongly inhibit DNA synthesis in adult cells. The behaviour of proteins involved in cell cycle regulation also differs from adult cells, according to the proliferative state. In addition, following Cd exposure, E-cadherin/beta-catenin complex disassembles in both cell types, with fetal cells being influenced at higher doses. The beta-catenin is not found in the nucleus, ruling out a direct role on DNA synthesis stimulation. Finally, metallothionein is more easily inducible in fetal hepatocytes, while Cd intracellular concentrations and HSP protein levels are not differentially affected. In conclusion, multiple cellular targets are affected by Cd in primary hepatocytes and the adverse effects of the metal are always better counteracted by fetal cells.
Non-coding RNAs regulate dosage compensation in mammals by controlling transcriptional silencing of one of the two X chromosomes in females. The two major transcripts involved in this process are Xist and its antisense counterpart Tsix. Expression of Xist and Tsix from the X inactivation center is mutually exclusive. Xist expression triggers chromosome wide silencing of the X chromosome from which it is transcribed. Tsix is a repressor of Xist and is specifically expressed from the other X chromosome, maintaining its activity. Here, we review non-coding RNAs that have been implicated in X chromosome inactivation. Focusing on the best studied transcripts Xist and Tsix we portray a current perspective on chromosome wide gene regulation by non-coding RNAs.
Although there are no reports of pathological laughing and crying being observed in patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), the author experienced three patients with CJD with prion protein gene codon180 mutation (V180I CJD) who showed this characteristic clinical finding. This finding was observed from the early disease stage in all 3 patients and continued for several months. Startle reaction was also remarkable in all patients, although myoclonus was generally mild. The dissociation between the startle reaction and myoclonus was suspected to be another feature of V180I CJD. The pathological laughing and crying co-occured with the startle reaction and stopped right before the onset of akinetic mutism, and the degree of both symptoms was almost parallel during this period. On the basis of MRI and autopsy findings, pathological laughing and crying was suspected of being induced by the widespread cerebral cortical involvement that is characteristic of V180I CJD. From the present observations, the author speculated that pathological laughing and crying may be a comparatively frequent observation in V180I CJD patients.
Asthma is a common and debilitating disease that has substantially increased in prevalence in Western Societies in the last 2 decades. Respiratory tract infections by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and rhinovirus (RV) are widely implicated as common causes of the induction and exacerbation of asthma. These infections in early life are associated with the induction of wheeze that may progress to the development of asthma. Infections may also promote airway inflammation and enhance T helper type 2 lymphocyte (Th2 cell) responses that result in exacerbations of established asthma. The mechanisms of how RSV and RV induce and exacerbate asthma are currently being elucidated by clinical studies, in vitro work with human cells and animal models of disease. This research has led to many potential therapeutic strategies and, although none are yet part of clinical practise, they show much promise for the prevention and treatment of viral disease and subsequent asthma.
The N-terminal domain of NS3 of hepatitis C virus (HCV) possesses serine protease activity, which is essential for virus replication. This portion is also implicated in malignant transformation of hepatocytes. We previously demonstrated that an N-terminal portion of NS3 formed a complex with the tumor suppressor p53 and suppressed actinomycin D-induced apoptosis. We report here that single-point mutations of NS3 at position 106 from Leu to Ala (L106A), and position 43 from Phe to Ala (F43A) to a lesser extent, significantly impaired complex formation with p53. Moreover, the L106A mutation impaired an otherwise more distinct anti-apoptotic activity of NS3. F43A and L106A mutations also inhibited serine protease activity of NS3. These results collectively suggest the possibility that Leu106 and Phe43 are involved in p53 interaction and serine protease activity, and therefore, can be a good target for certain low-molecular-weight compound(s) to inhibit both oncogenic and replicative abilities of HCV.
Bacteria and saliva play a very important role in the arising of the oral diseases. It must be considered that the saliva gives the nutriments for the bacteria, and it is able to influence the adhesive mechanisms, and to escape these bacteria. The interaction between the saliva and the host is unknown, but it is well-known in vitro, through the oral ecological systems principles. The authors reviewed several works about the salivary components and their role so in vivo, either in vitro. In this work, first the authors looked for these salivary components, and then, examined the interactions between the saliva, the plaque and the bacteria. So the saliva is a fundamental component in the ecologic succession, and it is nearly related to the etiopathogenesis of periodontitis. Finally a best knowledge of the saliva role and its components in the periodontitis is very interesting, because some salivary components allow the root surfaces colonization, exposed to the oral fluid and they give the possibility to use salivary components as markers of any disease.
The elucidation of molecular and signaling pathways in eukaryotic cells is often achieved by targeting regulatory element(s) found in the promoter or the enhancer region of eukaryotic gene(s) using a double-stranded (ds) oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) containing a specific cis-element. Our laboratory is focusing on dsODN decoys containing the TGF-beta element as a novel nonsteroidal antifibrotic for achieving normal wound healing. In the model systems discussed, there is either a specific gene possessing a specific cis-element or a cluster of genes with one gene containing the consensus cis-element. The rest of the genes in the cluster contain the cis-elements homologous to this consensus element, which allows for dsODN decoy regulation of a gene cluster at one time.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a freely diffusible, radical gas that has now been established as an integral signaling molecule in eukaryotes and bacteria. It has been demonstrated that NO signaling is initiated upon ligation to the heme iron of an H-NOX domain in mammals and in some bacteria. Bacterial H-NOX proteins have been found to interact with enzymes that participate in signaling pathways and regulate bacterial processes such as quorum sensing, biofilm formation, and symbiosis. Here, we review the biochemical characterization of these signaling pathways and, where available, describe how ligation of NO to H-NOX specifically regulates the activity of these pathways and their associated bacterial phenotypes.
We report a novel approach for direct on-membrane glycoproteomics by digestion of membrane-blotted glycoproteins with multiple enzymes using piezoelectric chemical inkjet printing technology and on-membrane direct MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. With this approach, both N-linked glycan analyses and peptide mass fingerprinting of several standard glycoproteins were successfully performed using PNGase F and trypsin microscale digestions of the blotted spots on membrane from an SDS-PAGE gel. In addition, we performed a similar analysis for 2-DE separated serum glycoproteins as a demonstration of how the system could be used in human plasma glycoproteomics.
This study was carried out to investigate the effect of an acute stressor on the variation of some physiological and immunological parameters of Siberian sturgeon (Acipenser baerii) juveniles. Fish, reared in 3 tanks for 10 weeks, were used for this study. The acute stress of fish consisted of 2 min of air exposure stress. Plasma levels of cortisol, glucose, and lactate as well as lysozyme activity in plasma were measured before stress and 1 hr, 3 hr, 6 hr, 9 hr, 12 hr, and 24 hr after stress. The plasma cortisol significantly increased in the highest level 1 hr after stress, yet it gradually declined after 3 hr. The glucose significantly increased only 1 hr after stress. There was no significant difference between plasma lactate prestress and poststress. Moreover, lysozyme activity was enhanced by stress, thus reaching the highest level 9 hr after stress. The results of this study indicate that Siberian sturgeon not only have a rapid response to acute stress, but also a great capacity for recovery from stress, thus returning physiological parameters to prestress levels after 6 hr.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to validate an individualized approach to contrast-enhanced body CT using size-specific tube potential selection to reduce either i.v. contrast or radiation dose while maintaining diagnostic image quality. MATERIALS AND METHODS: With a validated noise insertion method and retrospective image quality assessment (scale 1-5, >/= 3 acceptable), the lowest acceptable iodine contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) was determined for 25 body CT examinations. Age-appropriate CT protocols with size-specific tube potential selection were then developed to accomplish two goals: i.v. contrast dose reduction for patients 50 years old and older and radiation dose reduction for patients younger than 50 years. After implementation, subjective and objective image quality metrics were retrospectively compared between the individualized scans and previous fixed-tube-potential scans. RESULTS: Diagnostically acceptable iodine CNR was achieved with use of up to 40% dose reduction from the baseline protocol. At this dose level, results of logistic regression analysis predicted 94% probability of acceptable image quality. With the individualized protocols that targeted this iodine CNR, 84 patients 50 years old and older had a mean i.v. contrast dose reduction of 26% (100.9 +/- 20.7 mL vs 136.2 +/- 24.9 mL; p < 0.001) with unchanged image quality scores (4.6 +/- 0.5 vs 4.6 +/- 0.4; p = 0.160). Thirty patients younger than 50 years had a mean radiation dose reduction of 41% (mean volume CT dose index, 11.6 +/- 5.3 mGy vs 19.7 +/- 7.8 mGy; p < 0.001) with acceptable but slightly reduced mean image quality scores (4.1 +/- 0.4 vs 4.7 +/- 0.4; p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: With the use of age-appropriate scan protocols and size-specific selection of tube potential, acceptable image quality can be maintained while i.v. contrast dose or radiation dose is substantially lowered.
Mandibular fractures, resulting from either trauma or reconstructive surgery, can be challenging craniofacial problems. The morbidity of failed fracture healing is significant and may require bone grafting. Donor site morbidity and finite amounts of autogenous bone are major drawbacks of autogenous bone grafting. Similarly, the use of allografts and xenografts may be associated with an increased risk of rejection, infection, and nonunion. To circumvent the limitations of bone grafting, research efforts have focused on formulating a suitable bone substitute. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the efficacy of type I collagen implants in repairing critical sized mandibular defects in rats. Twelve male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-300g) were divided equally into control and experimental groups. Full thickness, round, four millimeter in diameter defects were created in the ramus of the right mandible of all rats using an electrical burr at low speed. The defects were irrigated of all bone chips, and either filled with a precisely fitted disk of allogenic collagen type I gel (experimental animals) or left empty (control animals). Animals were killed 6 weeks after surgery and healing of the bone defects was assessed in a blinded fashion using radiologic and histologic analysis. Radiologic analysis of the control group revealed a clear circular right mandibular defect in all animals, whereas the collagen disk implant group revealed an indistinct to nonexistent right mandibular defect in all animals. Densitometric analysis revealed a significant difference between these groups (* P = 0.01). Similarly, gross analysis of control mandibles revealed a 4mm round, soft-tissue filled defect, while implanted defects demonstrated gross bone spanning the defect. Finally, histologic analysis of all control mandibles revealed clearly demarcated bony edges at the defect border with connective tissue spanning the defect. In contrast, histological analysis of all implanted mandibles revealed indistinct bony edges at the defect border with a thin layer of osteoblasts and viable bone spanning the defects. We have demonstrated the ability of type I collagen to promote healing of a membranous bony defect that would not otherwise heal at 6 weeks. The suitability of type I collagen as a carrier matrix provides ample opportunity for tissue-engineered approaches to further facilitate bony defect healing. Promoting bone formation through tissue engineering matrices offers great promise for skeletal healing and reconstruction.
INTRODUCTION: A clinical series of patients was studied to compare the functional score after the use of a single versus two percutaneous iliosacral screws for unstable posterior pelvic ring fractures with or without anterior fixation with the aim to explore if the addition of a second screw would provide better results regarding the functional outcome score. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This case series includes 77 patients with an average of 32.6 years who suffered unstable posterior pelvic ring fractures. Forty-six were Tile type C and 31 were Tile type B. Patients underwent closed reduction and were fixed using percutaneous fluoroscopic-guided iliosacral screws in the supine position with 1 screw in 50 fractures, 2 screws in 37 fractures, 2 fractures were fixed with plates after ORIF, and in 6 cases (out of the bilateral cases) the undisplaced side was unfixed. Postoperatively three patients were lost to follow up and 74 patients (84 posterior fractures fixed with screws) were followed up for a mean of 37.4 months (range 6-151 months) and were evaluated using the Majeed score (1989). RESULTS: Clinical union occurred in all the patients, although in two cases posterior fixation failed and was revised. Radiologically excellent reduction was achieved in 55 patients (71.4%), good in 16 (20.8%), fair in 6 (7.8%) and none had poor reduction. Statistically; among 62 cases that completed the Majeed score evaluation at the last follow-up session, there was no significant difference p value 0.051 between two groups. We also compared Majeed score in Tile B and C fractures fixed with one versus two screws. CONCLUSION: The addition of a second screw for posterior fixation did not show any statistically significant difference regarding functional outcome. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV clinical trial.
The Fip1-like1 (FIP1L1)-platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) (F/P) oncogene can cause chronic eosinophilic leukemia (CEL), but requires IL-5 cytokine participation. In this study, we investigate the mechanism of F/P in collaboration with IL-5 in CEL. The results showed that Lyn, a key effector in the IL-5-motivated eosinophil production, is extensively activated in F/P-positive CEL cells. Lyn can associate and phosphorylate IL-5 receptor alpha (IL-5RA) in F/P-positive cells. Moreover, the activation of Lyn and IL-5R kinase were strengthened when the cells were stimulated by IL-5. Lyn inhibition in F/P-positive CEL cells attenuated cellular proliferation, induced apoptosis, and blocked cell migration and major basic protein (MBP) release. We identified the FIP1L1-PDGFRA/JAK2/Lyn/Akt complex in the F/P-expressing cells which can be disrupted by dual inhibition of JAK2 and Lyn, repressing cell proliferation in both EOL-1(F/P-positive human eosinophilic cell line) and imatinib-resistance (IR) cells. Altogether, our data demonstrate that Lyn is a vital downstream kinase activated by F/P converged with IL-5 signals in CEL cells. Lyn activate and expand IL-5RA intracellular signaling through FIP1L1-PDGFRA/JAK2/Lyn/Akt network complex, provoking eosinophils proliferation and exaggerated activation manifested as CEL.
BACKGROUND: Osteoarthritis of the knee is one of the most common public health problems in Thailand and throughout the world. It causes disability, with pain and loss of function. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the most common treatment modality to relieve pain for OA, but can cause undesirable adverse effects. Effective and safer alternative treatments for OA are urgently needed. Among the many kinds, Ayurved Siriraj Wattana Recipe has been widely used in humans for a long time. The components of the recipe probably were related with many systems of the body such as the immune system and the gastrointestinal system and it may have anti-inflammatory activity as well as anti-oxidative capacity. OBJECTIVE: Determine the efficacy of Ayurved Siriraj Wattana Recipe for knee osteoarthritis in a randomized, open-label, diclofenac-controlled trial for 12 weeks. The trial has been approved from Siriraj Institutional Review Board (SIRB), Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University. MATERIAL AND METHOD: Analyze the 12-item Oxford, defined as 5-point Likert scales of pain and functional activity. The secondary assessment included 10-cm VAS pain assessment tool as well as, patients' and physician's global efficacy assessment. RESULTS: "12-Item Oxford" revealed that patients had mild problems in terms of function and pain with an average function score observed between groups (p = 0.6). The average pain score at 12 weeks' follow-up was not significantly different in the Wattana group compared with the diclofenac group (p = 0.3). Responses with no differences included the mean 10-cm VAS that assessed pain at 12 weeks' follow-up in both groups. There were no significant differences in the patients' and physician's global efficacy assessment with patients in both groups. There were no differences in the frequent of adverse events between groups. In addition, there were no significant differences in the patients' and physician's global safety assessment between groups. CONCLUSION: The present, diclofenac-controlled trial concludes that Ayurved Siriraj Wattana Recipe treatment could be an effective treatment of pain in knee OA at 12 weeks.
Lynch syndrome, which is now recognized as the most common hereditary colorectal cancer condition, is characterized by the predisposition to a spectrum of cancers, primarily colorectal cancer and endometrial cancer. We chronicle over a century of discoveries that revolutionized the diagnosis and clinical management of Lynch syndrome, beginning in 1895 with Warthin's observations of familial cancer clusters, through the clinical era led by Lynch and the genetic era heralded by the discovery of causative mutations in mismatch repair (MMR) genes, to ongoing challenges.
The application of the peptide-linked beta2-microglobulin (beta2m) strategy is limited in some cases due to the incompatibility between the sequences of the peptides and the restriction sites of the plasmid vectors. An isocaudamer technique was adapted to overcome this restriction. Three peptide-linked beta2m genes, HBc(18-27)-hbeta2m gene, OVA(257-264)-mbeta2m gene and HER2/neu(369-377)-mbeta2m gene, were inserted into the pET28a vectors with this technique. The corresponding proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli with yields of over 50 mg/l culture and purities of over 80%. This strategy facilitates the construction of peptide-linked beta2m molecules and will simplify the preparation of major histocompatibility complex-peptide complexes.
BACKGROUND: Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is associated with intellectual disability, but the risk pathways are poorly understood. METHOD: The Tuberous Sclerosis 2000 Study is a prospective longitudinal study of the natural history of TSC. One hundred and twenty-five UK children age 0-16 years with TSC and born between January 2001 and December 2006 were studied. Intelligence was assessed using standardized measures at >/=2 years of age. The age of onset of epilepsy, the type of seizure disorder, the frequency and duration of seizures, as well as the response to treatment was assessed at interview and by review of medical records. The severity of epilepsy in the early years was estimated using the E-Chess score. Genetic studies identified the mutations and the number of cortical tubers was determined from brain scans. RESULTS: TSC2 mutations were associated with significantly higher cortical tuber count than TSC1 mutations. The extent of brain involvement, as indexed by cortical tuber count, was associated with an earlier age of onset and severity of epilepsy. In turn, the severity of epilepsy was strongly associated with the degree of intellectual impairment. Structural equation modelling supported a causal pathway from genetic abnormality to cortical tuber count to epilepsy severity to intellectual outcome. Infantile spasms and status epilepticus were important contributors to seizure severity. CONCLUSIONS: The findings support the proposition that severe, early onset epilepsy may impair intellectual development in TSC and highlight the potential importance of early, prompt and effective treatment or prevention of epilepsy in tuberous sclerosis.
An antioxidant enzymatic system is pivotal for aerobic animals to minimize the damage induced by reactive oxygen species. Spontaneous mutant animals with altered antioxidant enzyme activity should be useful for the study of the function of these enzymes in vivo. We examined the nucleotide sequences of the genes for the major antioxidant enzymes, including catalase (Cat), superoxide dismutase (Sod1, Sod2, Sod3), glutathione peroxidase (Gpx1, Gpx2, Gpx3, Gpx4, Gpx5), and glutathione reductase (Gsr) in 10 inbred mouse strains. Nonsynonymous nucleotide polymorphisms were identified in all genes, except for Gpx1, Gpx3, and Gpx4. Notably, the SJL/J mouse strain possessed unique nucleotide substitutions in the Gsr and Sod2 genes, which led to Asp39Ala and Val138Met amino acid substitutions in GSR and SOD2, respectively. The specific activity of GSR of SJL/J mice was reduced to 65% of that of NZB/N mice. In vivo activity, however, was higher in SJL/J, due to upregulated expression of the enzyme. The SOD2 activity in SJL/J mice was reduced to half that of other mouse strains. Consistent with this reduction, oxidative damage in the mitochondria was increased as demonstrated by a decrease of total glutathione and an increase in the levels of protein oxidation. These spontaneous hypomorphic alleles would be valuable in the study of free radical biology.
DNA-binding repressors are involved in transcriptional repression in many organisms. Disabling a repressor is a crucial step in activating expression of desired genes. Thus, several mechanisms have been identified for the removal of a stably bound repressor (Rep) from the operator. Here, we describe an uncharacterized mechanism of noncanonical DNA binding and induction by a Rep from the temperate Salmonella phage SPC32H; this mechanism was revealed using the crystal structures of homotetrameric Rep (92-198) and a hetero-octameric complex between the Rep and its antirepressor (Ant). The canonical method of inactivating a repressor is through the competitive binding of the antirepressor to the operator-binding site of the repressor; however, these studies revealed several noncanonical features. First, Ant does not compete for the DNA-binding region of Rep. Instead, the tetrameric Ant binds to the C-terminal domains of two asymmetric Rep dimers. Simultaneously, Ant facilitates the binding of the Rep N-terminal domains to Ant, resulting in the release of two Rep dimers from the bound DNA. Second, the dimer pairs of the N-terminal DNA-binding domains originate from different dimers of a Rep tetramer (trans model). This situation is different from that of other canonical Reps, in which two N-terminal DNA-binding domains from the same dimeric unit form a dimer upon DNA binding (cis model). On the basis of these observations, we propose a noncanonical model for the reversible inactivation of a Rep by an Ant.
Poor inhaler technique is frequent in asthma, but its long-term consequences have been seldom assessed. Pharmacists are ideally positioned to teach inhaler technique. This prospective observational study evaluated the feasibility of inhaler training by pharmacists in patients receiving inhaled corticosteroids by pressurised metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) or breath-actuated MDI. In parallel, the relationships between inhaler technique, adherence, and asthma control, and their modulation one month after training were assessed. Of 727 patients receiving training at pharmacies (n=123), 61% were prescribed a pMDI; 35%, an Autohaler((R)); and 5%, an Easi-Breathe((R)) inhaler. Poor asthma control (Asthma Control Questionnaire score >/= 1.5) at baseline was significantly (p<0.05) and independently associated with poor inhaler technique and poor self-reported adherence (Morisky score >/= 3). The percentage of patients with optimal inhaler technique rose from 24% before to 79% after training (p<0.001). Median training session length was 6 min. At 1 month, mean (SD) ACQ score had improved from a baseline score of 1.8 (1.2) to 1.4 (1.1), (p<0.001). Importantly, greater change was observed in patients with improved inhaler technique versus those without. Similar results were observed for Morisky score. Inhaler technique is associated with adherence and influences asthma control. Inhaler training by pharmacists is feasible and seams to improve inhaler technique, asthma control and adherence.
The rise of coral diseases has triggered a surge of interest in coral microbial communities. But to fully understand how the coral microbiome may cause or respond to disease, we must first understand structure and variation in the healthy coral microbiome. We used 16S rRNA sequencing to characterize the microbiomes of 100 healthy coral colonies from six Caribbean coral species (Acropora cervicornis, A. palmata, Diploria labyrinthiformis, Diploria strigosa, Porites astreoides and P. furcata) across four reefs and three time points over 1 year. We found host species to be the strongest driver of coral microbiome structure across site and time. Analysis of the core microbiome revealed remarkable similarity in the bacterial taxa represented across coral hosts and many bacterial phylotypes shared across all corals sampled. Some of these widespread bacterial taxa have been identified in Pacific corals, indicating that a core coral microbiome may extend across oceans. Core bacterial phylotypes that were unique to each coral were taxonomically diverse, suggesting that different coral hosts provide persistent, divergent niches for bacteria.
In iron-rich conditions, Pseudomonas aureofaciens PA147-2 produces an antibiotic-like compound that inhibits the growth of a plant fungal pathogen, Aphanomyces euteiches. To contribute to the potential use of PA147-2 as a biocontrol organism, we report the identification of a genetic locus important for antibiotic biosynthesis. Mutants defective for fungal inhibition (Af) were generated by Tn5 mutagenesis. Southern hybridization of total DNAs from three Af mutants indicated that loss of fungal inhibition was due to a single Tn5 insertion in each mutant. Restriction mapping of the mutation points showed that in two mutants the Tn5 insertions were in the same 16.0-kb EcoRI fragment and were separated by 2.1 kb. A genomic library of PA147-2 was constructed and screened by using a region of DNA flanking the Tn5 insertion in one mutant (PA109) as a probe to recover complementing cosmids. Three cosmids containing a 16.0-kb EcoRI fragment complementary to the two mutants were recovered. Allele replacement by homologous recombination with putative complementing cosmids restored one mutant to antifungal activity against A. euteiches. Southern analysis of the complemented mutants confirmed that allele replacement had occurred between cosmid DNA and Tn5. The wild-type 16.0-kb EcoRI fragment was cloned from the cosmid and complemented the two mutants to antifungal activity. An antifungal compound was isolated from PA147-2 grown on solid medium. Antifungal activity correlated to a peak on high-pressure liquid chromatography analysis. Under the same growth and extraction conditions, the antifungal activity seen in PA147-2 was absent in two Af mutants. Furthermore, absence of an antifungal compound in each mutant correlated to the absence of the wild-type "antifungal" peak on high-pressure liquid chromatography analysis.
The nematophagous fungus Arthrobotrys oligospora is a potential biological agent against parasitic gastrointestinal nematodes. Its subtilisin-like serine proteases play an important role in nematode cuticle breach. In this study, the cDNA of the mature serine protease XAoz1 from A. oligospora XJ-XAo1 was expressed in Pichia pastoris to assess the in vitro nematicidal activity of recombinant XAoz1 (reXAoz1) on Caenorhabditis elegans and Haemonchus contortus. The cDNA sequence of the protease XAoz1 was amplified by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and inserted into the vector pPIC9K for expression in P.pastoris GS115. Our results show that the reXAoz1 had a molecular mass of 50 kDa after 3 days of 1.5%-methanol induction at 28 degrees C. The highest specific protease activity was achieved at 12 168 U mg(-1) protein. The reXAoz1 had the highest hydrolytic activity at pH 6.5-9.5 with an optimal pH at 8.5. Moreover, the purified reXAoz1 displayed a highly toxic and biological activity to immobilize C. elegans and H. contortus by degrading their cuticles and inducing death.
Sonchus asper is traditionally used in the treatment of renal dysfunction. In the present study, protective effects of S. asper against carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced nephrotoxicity of rats were determined. In this study, 24 male albino rats (190-200 g) were equally divided into four groups. Group I (control group) was given saline (1 ml/kg body weight (b.w.), 0.85% NaCl) and dimethyl sulfoxide (1 ml/kg b.w.); group II was treated with CCl4 (1 ml/kg b.w. intraperitoneally); groups III and IV were administered with CCl4 and after 48 h with S. asper n-hexane extract (SHE; 100 and 200 mg/kg b.w.). All the treatments were given twice a week for 4 weeks. The results revealed that CCl4-induced oxidative stress as evidenced by the significant depletion of antioxidant enzymes, namely, superoxide dismutase, catalase, peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione contents, while increased lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances contents). Administration of SHE significantly ameliorated (p < 0.01) the activity of antioxidant enzymes and reduced lipid peroxides. Coadministration revealed that S. asper extract can protect the kidney against CCl4-mediated oxidative damage by restoring the activity of antioxidant enzyme, due to the presence of plant bioactive constituents.
A soluble ATP-dependent enzyme which phosphorylates myo-inositol has been characterized in Dictyostelium. The myo-inositol kinase activity was partially purified from amoebae by chromatography on DEAE-Sepharose and phenyl-Sepharose columns. The product of both the partially purified activity and of a crude cytosolic fraction was myo-inositol 3-phosphate. The partially purified preparations of myo-inositol kinase (a) possessed a Km for myo-inositol of 120 microM (in the presence of 5 mM-ATP) and for ATP of 125 microM (in the presence of 1 microM-myo-inositol), (b) did not recognize allo-, epi-, muco-, neo-, scyllo-, 1 D-chiro or 1 L-chiro-inositol as substrates, (c) were competitively inhibited by three naturally occurring analogues of myo-inositol: 1 L-chiro-inositol (Ki 49.5 +/- 0.7 microM: the structural equivalent of myo-inositol, except that the D-3 hydroxy moiety is axial), D-3-deoxy-myo-inositol [Ki 103 +/- 1 microM: (-)-viburnitol], and sequoyitol (Ki 271 +/- 7 microM; unlike 1 L-chiro-inositol and D-3-deoxy-myo-inositol, this was a substrate for the kinase), and finally (d) were apparently non-competitively inhibited by myo-inositol 3-phosphate. The product of myo-inositol kinase could be detected in intact amoebae and was a substrate for the first in a series of inositol polyphosphate kinases present in Dictyostelium which ultimately yield myo-inositol hexakisphosphate. The activity of myo-inositol D-3-hydroxykinase in Dictyostelium lysates showed evidence of developmental regulation.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to investigate the unique features of seronegative neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD) in Thailand. BACKGROUND: It remains unknown whether seronegative NMOSD patients possess clinical and paraclinical features that are distinct from those with seropositivity. METHODS: In a Thai cohort of idiopathic inflammatory CNS disorders (n=122), 52 patients fulfilled the Wingerchuk 2007 criteria for NMOSD. We determined anti-AQP4 antibody statuses using three different assays (an in-house cell-based assay [CBA], a commercially available CBA and a tissue-based indirect immunofluorescence [IIF] assay). RESULTS: Among the NMOSD patients, the percentage of seropositive cases was 54.5% based on the in-house and commercial CBAs and 30.8% based on the IIF assay. Using the in-house CBA, seronegative NMOSD patients exhibited distinct features compared with seropositive patients, such as a lack of female preponderance (F/M=1.2 vs. 6.0), frequent simultaneous bilateral optic involvement (33.3% vs. 0.04%), a lower annual relapse rate (0.4 +/- 0.3 vs. 0.7 +/- 0.6), fewer spinal cord lesions (1.0 +/- 4.3 vs. 1.4 +/- 0.6), and lower CSF cell counts (20 +/- 72 vs. 80 +/- 285). Use of the commercial CBA yielded essentially similar results, but some of these differences were not significant using IIF. CONCLUSIONS: Sensitive anti-AQP4 antibody assays reveal features of seronegative NMOSD patients that differ from those of seropositive patients from Thailand.
During commonly used saturation procedures of transferrin with iron compounds, both as ferri and ferrous, polynuclear iron compounds are easily formed, even when nitrilotriacetate (NTA) is used as a strong iron ligand. The presence of these nonspecific bound irons is demonstrated with Mossbauer spectroscopy and with electronic optical spectroscopy. But no evidence, however, has been found of two different iron binding sites. Because dialysis is not able to remove all polynuclear iron, an easy method with gel filtration has been developed that does remove the polynuclear iron. Some notes are made about the often used method, in transferrin biochemistry, of saturation determination, i.e. the quotient of the absorbances of 470 and 280 nm.
Late blowing on semihard and hard cheese may have an important economic effect on dairy production. Many studies have attempted to prevent this defect by physical treatment, the use of additives, and the use of bacteriocins. In this paper, we look at the effect of jenny milk as an inhibitor of blowing caused by clostridia and coliforms in ewe cheese making. Bulk ewe and jenny milk samples were collected in the morning by mechanical milking and were refrigerated at 4 degrees C. On the collected samples, the count of somatic cells, coliforms, Clostridium butyricum, and Escherichia coli were determined. The bulk raw milk was divided in two 45-L vats: vat 1 was used as a control, whereas 0.5L of jenny milk was added to vat 2. Four semihard cheeses, weighing about 2 kg each, were made from each vat. Cheese making was replicated twice. After a ripening period of 60 d, the count of coliforms and of C. butyricum was determined. In the treated group, a significant inhibition of coliform bacteria was observed. The addition of jenny milk in cheese making may prove to be a useful and innovative approach for the inhibition of spore-forming clostridia strains.
The human pocket proteins retinoblastoma (Rb), p107, and p130 are critical negative regulators of the cell cycle and contribute to tumor suppression. While strong structural conservation within the pocket protein family provides for some functional redundancy, important differences have been observed and may underlie the reason that Rb is a uniquely potent tumor suppressor. It has been proposed that distinct pocket protein activities are mediated by their different E2F transcription factor binding partners. In humans, Rb binds E2F1-E2F5, whereas p107 and p130 almost exclusively associate with E2F4 and E2F5. To identify the molecular determinants of this specificity, we compared the crystal structures of Rb and p107 pocket domains and identified several key residues that contribute to E2F selectivity in the pocket family. Mutation of these residues in p107 to match the analogous residue in Rb results in an increase in affinity for E2F1 and E2F2 and an increase in the ability of p107 to inhibit E2F2 transactivation. Additionally, we investigated how phosphorylation by Cyclin-dependent kinase on distinct residues regulates p107 affinity for the E2F4 transactivation domain. We found that phosphorylation of residues S650 and S975 weakens the E2F4 transactivation domain binding. Our data reveal molecular features of pocket proteins that are responsible for their similarities and differences in function and regulation.
The pathogen Brucella suis resides and multiplies within a phagocytic vacuole of its host cell, the macrophage. The resulting complex relationship has been investigated by the analysis of the set of genes required for virulence, which we call intramacrophagic virulome. Ten thousand two hundred and seventy-two miniTn5 mutants of B. suis constitutively expressing gfp were screened by fluorescence microscopy for lack of intracellular multiplication in human macrophages. One hundred thirty-one such mutants affected in 59 different genes could be isolated, and a function was ascribed to 53 of them. We identified genes involved in (i) global adaptation to the intracellular environment, (ii) amino acid, and (iii) nucleotide synthesis, (iv) sugar metabolism, (v) oxidoreduction, (vi) nitrogen metabolism, (vii) regulation, (viii) disulphide bond formation, and (ix) lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis. Results led to the conclusion that the replicative compartment of B. suis is poor in nutrients and characterized by low oxygen tension, and that nitrate may be used for anaerobic respiration. Intramacrophagic virulome analysis hence allowed the description of the nature of the replicative vacuole of the pathogen in the macrophage and extended our understanding of the niche in which B. suis resides. We propose calling this specific compartment "brucellosome."
The objective of this work was to analyze transformation and excretion of beta-asarone in rabbits with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The rabbits were administered IV at a dose of 30 mg/kg body weight beta-asarone-water-propylene glycol (6:34:60, v/v/v), and urine and feces were collected within 6, 12 and 24 h. At 24 h, the animals were killed and bile was collected. Urine (2 mL) and bile (2 mL) samples were extracted with ether (4 mL), and the feces samples (2 g) were prepared by making an ether-feces (2:1, v/w) homogenate. Ether phase was evaporated and 25 microL psoralen-ether (2.95:1 w/v) was added. All samples were measured with GC-MS. beta-Asarone was excreted in urine, feces and bile, and the excretion efficiency was about 62% in urine, 22% in feces, and 16% in bile. About 22% beta-asarone was converted into alpha-asarone. Most beta-asarone were excreted in 12 h. Gender differences accounted for no significant influence on the transformation and excretion of beta-asarone.
BACKGROUND: Necrotizing skin and soft tissue infections (NSTI) form a group of aggressive diseases that require radical debridement for infection control. Simultaneously, a high-dose broad spectrum antibiotic regimen needs to be initiated with control of septic complications in the intensive care setting. The aim of this work is to analyze the efficacy and safety of tigecycline in a subpopulation of hospitalized, severely ill surgical NSTI patients who were documented in a large multicenter non-interventional study on tigecycline use in routine clinical practice. METHODS: A total of 1,025 patients with severe infections including complicated skin and soft-tissue infections (cSSTI, n=163; 15,9%) were enrolled in a prospective multi-center non-interventional study. Patients were to receive an initial intravenous dose of 100 mg tigecycline, followed by 50 mg twice daily. Prospectively documented parameters included clinical findings, APACHE II score, microbiological and standard laboratory assessments, surgical measures, and clinical outcomes including adverse events. RESULTS: Of 163 patients were treated for cSSTI, with the largest subgroup being NSTI patients (n=50, 30.7% of all cSSTI, mean age 61 y, median APACHE II score 20). Forty-eight NSTI patients (96%) had at least one comorbidity. In 80% of patients, the treatment was started after previous antibiotic treatment had failed and in 34% resistant pathogens were isolated (28% methicillin resistant Staphyloccocus aureus [MRSA], 4% extended-spectrum-beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing bacteria, and 2% vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE). Tigecycline was administered as a single agent in 32 patients; 17 received combination regimens. Data from one patient were not reported. Rates of clinical cure or improvement with tigecycline treatment were 90.2%. Two patients (4%) had drug related adverse events (one thrombocytopenia and one fever/chills); 10 patients (20%) died. CONCLUSIONS: Tigecycline alone or in combination therapy was an effective and safe antibiotic treatment in critically ill and antimicrobially pre-treated patients with NSTI frequently caused by resistant pathogens.
We studied prospectively 132 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome to define the spectrum of enteric pathogens during this disease, with special reference to the correlation between the lesions, the infections, and the symptoms. Forty-four percent of the patients harbored at least one enteric pathogen: the most frequently recovered were Cryptosporidium (28), cytomegalovirus (16), Entamoeba histolytica (13), Giardia lamblia (9), and Mycobacterium avium intracellulare (7). Patients harboring pathogens were more likely to be diarrheics (69%) than patients without a pathogen (38%; P = 0.01) and more likely to have endoscopic lesions (29%) than patients without a pathogen (4%; P less than 0.001). The most common pathogen associated with diarrhea was Cryptosporidium. Cytomegalovirus, Entamoeba histolytica, and Salmonella typhimurium were each significantly associated with endoscopic lesions. Patients with cytomegalovirus infection tended to have a greater incidence of ulcer than patients without cytomegalovirus infection. Stool analysis diagnosed 61% of the infections, while endoscopy diagnosed 44%. Seven percent were recognized by stool analysis and endoscopy. When considering the 24 patients in whom accurate diagnosis warranted endoscopic biopsies, stool examination alone would have given an incomplete diagnosis in 14 patients (due to the presence of polyinfection). The frequency of inaccurate diagnosis of infection by stool determination alone, plus the development of new antiviral agents that suppress cytomegalovirus, may favor the earlier application of endoscopic evaluation in these patients.
Development of neuronal circuits is controlled by evolutionarily conserved axon guidance molecules, including Slits, the repulsive ligands for roundabout (Robo) receptors, and Netrin-1, which mediates attraction through the DCC receptor. We discovered that the Robo3 receptor fundamentally changed its mechanism of action during mammalian evolution. Unlike other Robo receptors, mammalian Robo3 is not a high-affinity receptor for Slits because of specific substitutions in the first immunoglobulin domain. Instead, Netrin-1 selectively triggers phosphorylation of mammalian Robo3 via Src kinases. Robo3 does not bind Netrin-1 directly but interacts with DCC. Netrin-1 fails to attract pontine neurons lacking Robo3, and attraction can be restored in Robo3(-/-) mice by expression of mammalian, but not nonmammalian, Robo3. We propose that Robo3 evolution was key to sculpting the mammalian brain by converting a receptor for Slit repulsion into one that both silences Slit repulsion and potentiates Netrin attraction.
Samarcandin 1, a natural sesquiterpene-coumarin, was isolated as well as elucidated from F. assa-foetida which has significant effect in Iranian traditional medicine because of its medicinal attitudes. The crystal structure of samarcandin was determined by single-crystal X-ray structure analysis. It is orthorhombic, with unit cell parameters a=10.8204 (5)A, b=12.9894 (7)A, c=15.2467 (9)A, V=2142.9 (2)A(3), space group P212121 and four symmetry equivalent molecules in the unit cell. Samarcandin was isolated in order to study for its theoretical studies as well as its cellular toxicity as anti-cancer drug against two cancerous cells. In comparison with controls, our microscopic and MTT assay data showed that samarcandin suppresses cancer cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner with IC50=11muM and 13 for AGS and WEHI-164 cell lines, respectively. Density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) of the structure was computed by three functional methods and 6-311++G( * *) standard basis set. The optimized molecular geometry and theoretical analysis agree closely to that obtained from the single crystal X-ray crystallography. To sum up, the good correlations between experimental and theoretical studies by UV, NMR, and IR spectra were found.
Eosinophil infiltration into the gastrointestinal tract occurs in a wide range of diseases. However, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in eosinophil migration and the role of eosinophils in disease pathogenesis are largely unknown. Recent studies using experimental models of eosinophil-associated gastrointestinal allergy have revealed differential roles for IL-5 and eotaxin in the modulation of eosinophil accumulation into various regions of the gastrointestinal tract. Furthermore, such studies have revealed a possible role for eosinophils in the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal disorders. The present review describes the clinical manifestations of various eosinophil-associated gastrointestinal disorders and the current understanding of the role of IL-5 and eotaxin in the allergic inflammatory response, and the participation of the eosinophilic granulocyte in the expression of disease.
Fibulin-1 is an extracellular matrix glycoprotein found in both loose and dense connective tissues, elastic fibers and some basement membranes. Cultured cells such as fibroblasts assemble endogenously synthesized or exogenously added fibulin-1 into matrix fibrils that also contain fibronectin. Since we have previously shown that fibulin-1 binds to fibronectin (Balbona, K., Tran, H., Godyna, S., Ingham, K. C., Strickland, D. K. and Argraves, W. S. J. Biol. Chem. 267: 20120-20125, 1992), we sought to investigate fibulin-1 incorporation into fibroblast extracellular matrix with an emphasis on evaluating the potential role of fibronectin in the process. In this study, we have used quantitative assays to measure the binding of 125I-fibulin to monolayers of cultured fibroblasts. Our results show that the kinetics of fibulin-1 incorporation into the cell layer and its partitioning into detergent-soluble and -insoluble fractions were similar to those of fibronectin. It was found that antibodies to fibronectin or to the fibulin-1-binding domain of fibronectin-inhibited fibulin-1 incorporation. Cell lines that fail to assemble fibronectin into the matrix, such as HT1080 or PFHR-9, do not incorporate fibulin-1 into their cell layers. However, when HT1080 cells were induced to assemble fibronectin by treatment with dexamethasone, they subsequently acquired the ability to incorporate fibulin-1. Moreover, treatment of cultured fibroblasts with antibodies that inhibit fibronectin assembly significantly inhibit fibulin-1 incorporation into the matrix. When increased amounts of fibronectin were incorporated into cells layers by incubating the cells for varying lengths of time with exogenous fibronectin, a corresponding increase in fibulin-1 incorporation was also observed. Taken together, the data indicate that the incorporation of fibulin-1 requires fibronectin assembly and suggests a dependence on the amount of fibronectin in a matrix. These results highlight the potential of fibronectin to control the deposition of fibulin-1 into those extracellular matrices where both proteins coincide and may have implications in the formation of fibulin-1-containing matrix structures such as basement membranes or elastic fibers.
Mechanical circulatory assist devices that provide temporary support in heart failure patients are needed to enable recovery or provide a bridge to decision. Minimizing risk of blood damage (i.e., hemolysis) with these devices is critical, especially if the length of support needs to be extended. Hematologic responses of the RotaFlow (Maquet) and CentriMag (Thoratec) temporary support devices were characterized in an in vitro feasibility study. Paired static mock flow loops primed with fresh bovine blood (700 mL, hematocrit [Hct] = 25 +/- 3%, heparin titrated for activated clotting time >300 s) pooled from a single-source donor were used to test hematologic responses to RotaFlow (n = 2) and CentriMag (n = 2) simultaneously. Pump differential pressures, temperature, and flow were maintained at 250 +/- 10 mm Hg, 25 +/- 2 degrees C, and 4.2 +/- 0.25 L/min, respectively. Blood samples (3 mL) were collected at 0, 60, 120, 180, 240, 300, and 360 min after starting pumps in accordance with recommended Food and Drug Administration and American Society for Testing and Materials guidelines. The CentriMag operated at a higher average pump speed (3425 rpm) than the RotaFlow (3000 rpm) while maintaining similar constant flow rates (4.2 L/min). Hematologic indicators of blood trauma (hemoglobin, Hct, platelet count, plasma free hemoglobin, and white blood cell) for all measured time points as well as normalized and modified indices of hemolysis were similar (RotaFlow: normalized index of hemolysis [NIH] = 0.021 +/- 0.003 g/100 L, modified index of hemolysis [MIH] = 3.28 +/- 0.52 mg/mg compared to CentriMag: NIH = 0.041 +/- 0.010 g/100 L, MIH = 6.08 +/- 1.45 mg/mg). In this feasibility study, the blood trauma performance of the RotaFlow was similar or better than the CentriMag device under clinically equivalent, worst-case test conditions. The RotaFlow device may be a more cost-effective alternative to the CentriMag.
BACKGROUND: A frequent complication in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is recurrent bleeding from the aneurysm. The risk is highest within the first 6 hours after the initial hemorrhage. Securing the aneurysm within this timeframe is difficult owing to logistical delays. The rate of recurrent bleeding can also be reduced by ultra-early administration of antifibrinolytics, which probably improves functional outcome. The aim of this study is to investigate whether ultra-early and short-term administration of the antifibrinolytic agent tranexamic acid (TXA), as add-on to standard SAH management, leads to better functional outcome. METHODS/DESIGN: This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, open-label trial with blinded endpoint (PROBE) assessment. Adult patients with the diagnosis of non-traumatic SAH, as proven by computed tomography (CT) within 24 hours after the onset of headache, will be randomly assigned to the treatment group or the control group. Patients in the treatment group will receive standard treatment with the addition of a bolus of TXA (1 g intravenously) immediately after randomization, followed by continuous infusion of 1 g per 8 hours until the start of aneurysm treatment, or a maximum of 24 hours after the start of medication. Patients in the control group will receive standard treatment without TXA. The primary outcome measure is favorable functional outcome, defined as a score of 0 to 3 on the modified Rankin Scale (mRS), at 6 months after SAH. Primary outcome will be determined by a trial nurse blinded for treatment allocation. We aim to include 950 patients in 3 years. DISCUSSION: The strengths of this study are: 1. the ultra-early and short-term administration of TXA, resulting in a lower dose as compared to previous studies, which should reduce the risk for delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI), an important risk factor in the long-term treatment with antifibrinolytics; 2. the power calculation is based on functional outcome and calculated with use of recent study results of our own population, supported by data from prominent studies; and 3. the participation of several specialized SAH centers, and their referring hospitals, in the Netherlands with comparative treatment protocols. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Nederlands Trial Register (Dutch Trial Registry) number NTR3272.
KstR2 (Rv3557c) is one of two TetR-family transcriptional repressors of cholesterol metabolism in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The ability to degrade cholesterol fully is important for pathogenesis, and therefore this repressor was expressed, purified and crystallized. Crystals of KstR2 diffracted to better than 1.9 A resolution and belonged to space group C2, with unit-cell parameters a = 72.3, b = 90.3, c = 49.7 A, alpha = gamma = 90, beta = 128.2 degrees .
OBJECTIVE: To review the causes, costs, and risk factors for unplanned return visits and readmissions after pediatric adenotonsillectomy (T&A). METHODS: Review of administrative database of outpatient adenotonsillectomy performed at any facility within a vertically integrated health care system in the Intermountain West on children age 1-18 years old between 1998 and 2012. Data reviewed included demographic variables, diagnosis associated with return visit and costs associated with return visits. RESULTS: Data from 39,906 children aged 1-18 years old were reviewed. A total of 2499 (6.3%) children had unplanned return visits. The most common reasons for return visits were bleeding (2.3%), dehydration, (2.3%) and throat pain (1.2%). After multivariate analysis, the main risk factors for any type of return visits were Medicaid insurance (OR=1.64 95% CI 1.47-1.84), Hispanic race (OR=1.36 95% CI 1.13-1.64), and increased severity of illness (SOI) (OR=11.29 95% CI 2.69-47.4 for SOI=3). The only factor associated with increased odds of requiring an inpatient admission on return visit was length of time spent in PACU (p<0.001). A linear relationship was also observed between the child's age and the risk of post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage. CONCLUSION: Children with increased severity of illness, those insured with Medicaid, and children of Hispanic ethnicity should be targeted with increased education and interventions in order to reduce unplanned visits after T&A. Further studies on post-tonsillectomy complications should include evaluating the effect of surgical technique and post-operative pain management on all complications and not solely post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage.
Three risk factors for sudden infant death syndrome are well established: maternal smoking, prone sleeping position and non-breast feeding. Two additional risk factors have been proposed: microbial infection in the gastrointestinal or respiratory tracts and iron loading. This review endeavors to integrate these five disparate factors into a unifying concept.
BACKGROUND: A rapidly growing amount of knowledge about signaling and gene regulatory networks is available in databases such as KEGG, Reactome, or RegulonDB. There is an increasing need to relate this knowledge to high-throughput data in order to (in)validate network topologies or to decide which interactions are present or inactive in a given cell type under a particular environmental condition. Interaction graphs provide a suitable representation of cellular networks with information flows and methods based on sign consistency approaches have been shown to be valuable tools to (i) predict qualitative responses, (ii) to test the consistency of network topologies and experimental data, and (iii) to apply repair operations to the network model suggesting missing or wrong interactions. RESULTS: We present a framework to unify different notions of sign consistency and propose a refined method for data discretization that considers uncertainties in experimental profiles. We furthermore introduce a new constraint to filter undesired model behaviors induced by positive feedback loops. Finally, we generalize the way predictions can be made by the sign consistency approach. In particular, we distinguish strong predictions (e.g. increase of a node level) and weak predictions (e.g., node level increases or remains unchanged) enlarging the overall predictive power of the approach. We then demonstrate the applicability of our framework by confronting a large-scale gene regulatory network model of Escherichia coli with high-throughput transcriptomic measurements. CONCLUSION: Overall, our work enhances the flexibility and power of the sign consistency approach for the prediction of the behavior of signaling and gene regulatory networks and, more generally, for the validation and inference of these networks.
Ceruloplasmin (Cp) concentration and oxidative activity in serum are lowered in Parkinson's disease (PD). In most PD patients, iron increases in the substantia nigra in the midbrain. In PD, the low Cp concentration and activity in serum and the high iron amounts in the substantia nigra appears to be correlated. An hereditary background is common in PD and variations in the Cp gene that have been found in PD are associated with high iron levels in the substantia nigra. Variations in Cp synthesis and in the incorporation of copper into the Cp molecule are essential features of PD. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the Cp activity in serum is lowered but not the concentration, except in the advanced stages of the disease. Generally, iron is not increased in the AD brain. In the AD brain, iron accumulates in neuritic plaques and in neurofibrillary tangles. There is also increased risk of iron-mediated tissue damage, which may possibly be counteracted by Cp. At the same time, the AD brain is short in copper, which presumably results in the deficient activity of many copper enzymes in the brain, in addition to Cp. Lowered Cp activity in serum most likely stems from lessened incorporation of copper in the Cp molecule and similar incorporation defects might also apply to other copper enzymes in AD.
It is well-known that gill epithelial cells are important in fish osmoregulation. However, studies on the effect of osmotic stress on the direct cellular responses of the gill epithelial cells are limited. In this paper, we aimed to determine the effects of osmotic hypertonicity, hormones and cellular signaling molecules on the expression of ion transporters in the cultured primary freshwater pavement cells (PVCs), prepared from freshwater-adapted eels (Anguilla japonica). Our data demonstrated that the hypertonic (500 mOsmol l(-1)) treatment of the isolated PVCs induced cell shrinkage, followed by regulatory volume increase (RVI). Application of blockers (i.e. ouabain, bumetanide and EIPA) demonstrated that Na+/K+ -ATPase, Na+/K+/2Cl- cotransporter (NKCC) and Na+/H+ exchanger-1 (NHE-1) were involved in RVI. Western blot analysis of the hypertonic-treated cells revealed a significant induction of NHE-1, NKCC and, alpha and beta subunits of Na+/K+ -ATPase. In nonshrunken cultured PVCs, we found that dexamethasone and dibutyryl cAMP treatments significantly stimulated the expression levels of the three ion transporters. Both prolactin and insulin-like growth factor-1, can only induce the expression of NKCC. The effect of thyroid hormone (T3) and dibutyryl cGMP was negligible. In this study, the induction of ion transporter expression was found to be post-transcriptionally regulated as no significant change in mRNA levels was detected. This observation implies that the regulation is rapid and is probably induced via nongenomic actions.
Tick saliva contains molecules that are inoculated at the site of attachment on their hosts in order to modulate local immune responses and facilitate a successful blood meal. Bovines express heritable, contrasting phenotypes of infestations with the cattle tick, Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus: breeds of Bos taurus indicus are significantly more resistant than those of Bos taurus taurus. Tick saliva may contain molecules that interfere with adhesion of leukocytes to endothelium and resistant hosts may mount an inflammatory profile that is more efficient to hamper the tick's blood meal. We show in vitro that adhesion of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to monolayers of cytokine-activated bovine umbilical endothelial cells was significantly inhibited by tick saliva. The inflammatory response to bites of adults of R. microplus mounted by genetically resistant and susceptible bovine hosts managed in the same pasture was investigated in vivo. The inflammatory infiltrates and levels of message coding for adhesion molecules were measured in biopsies of tick-bitten and control skin taken when animals of both breeds were exposed to low and high tick infestations. Histological studies reveal that cutaneous reactions of resistant hosts to bites of adult ticks contained significantly more basophils and eosinophils compared with reactions of the susceptible breed. Expression of the adhesion molecules - intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) and P-selectin - was higher in adult-infested skin of susceptible hosts undergoing low infestations compared to resistant hosts; when host was exposed to high infestations expression of these adhesion molecules was down-regulated in both phenotypes of infestations. Expression of leukocyte adhesion glycoprotein-1 (LFA-1) was higher in skin from susceptible hosts undergoing low or high infestations compared to resistant hosts. Conversely, higher levels of E-selectin, which promotes adhesion of memory T cells, were expressed in skin of resistant animals. This finding may explain the resistant host's ability to mount more rapid and efficient secondary responses that limit hematophagy and infestations. The expression profiles observed for adhesion molecules indicate that there are differences in the kinetics of the inflammatory reactions mounted by resistant and susceptible hosts and the balance between tick and host is affected by the number of tick bites a host receives. We show that the contrasting phenotypes of infestations seen in bovines infested with R. microplus are correlated with differences in the cellular and molecular composition of inflammatory infiltrates elicited by bites with adult ticks.
Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) varies little in sequence compared with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) and it is difficult to detect HTLV-1 mRNA, proteins or virions in fresh blood. But the strong and chronically activated T cell response to the virus indicates that HTLV-1 proteins are expressed persistently. It now appears that the efficiency of an individual's cytotoxic T cell (CTL) response to HTLV-1 is the chief single determinant of that person's provirus load, which can differ between HTLV-1-infected people by more than 10 000-fold. Progress is now being made towards defining this CTL 'efficiency' in terms of host genetics, T cell function, T cell gene expression and mathematical dynamics. Lymphocytes that are naturally infected with HTLV-1 do not produce enveloped extracellular virions in short-term culture and this has reinforced the erroneous conclusion that the virus is latent. But recent evidence shows that HTLV-1 can spread directly between lymphocytes across a specialized, virus-induced cell-cell contact - a 'viral synapse'. Instead of making extracellular virions, HTLV-1 uses the mobility of the host cell to spread within and between hosts. In this review the evidence is summarized on the persistent gene expression of HTLV-1 in vivo, the role of the immune system in protection and pathogenesis in HTLV-1 infection, and the mechanism of cell-to-cell spread of HTLV-1.
BACKGROUND: There is no research on mapping algorithms between EQ-5D and SF-36 in Korea. The aim of this study was to derive a predictive model for converting the SF-36 health profile to the EQ-5D index using data from several studies. METHODS: Individual data (n = 2211) were collected from three different studies and separated into derivation (n = 1660) and internal validation sets (n = 551). Data from 123 colon cancer patients were analyzed for external validation. The prediction models were analyzed using ordinary least-square (OLS) regression, two-part modeling, and multinomial logistic modeling using eight scale scores; two summary scores and the interaction terms of SF-36 were used as independent variables. The EQ-5D index using the Korean value set and each dimension of the EQ-5D were used as dependent variables. The mean absolute errors (MAE) and R2 values of the internal and external validation dataset were used to evaluate model performance. RESULTS: Our findings show that the three different scoring algorithms demonstrate similar performances in terms of MAE and R2. After considering familiarity and parsimony, the OLS model (including Physical Function, Bodily Pain, Social Function, Role Emotional, and Mental Health) was found to be optimal as the final algorithm for use in this study. The MAEs of the OLS models demonstrated consistent results in both the derivation (0.087-0.109) and external validation sets (0.082-0.097). CONCLUSION: This study provides mapping algorithms for estimating the EQ-5D index from the SF-36 profile using individual data and confirms that these algorithms demonstrate high explanatory power and low prediction errors.
A novel degenerated primer set was designed to amplify acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) synthetase genes from members of the family Rhizobiaceae. The primer set successfully amplified AHL synthetase genes from pure cultures of AHL producers from Rhizobiaceae, but not from AHL producers out of the Rhizobiaceae family, indicating the specificity of this primer set to the Rhizobiaceae family. An inoculation experiment showed that the minimal detectable concentration of AHL producers from the soil was around 2.5 x 10(7) CFU/g soil. When applying to environmental samples, 7 and 14 different genotypes of AHL synthetase genes were identified in the rhizosphere of Glycine max and Vigna unguiculata, respectively, which revealed complicated and unknown AHL-based quorum-sensing networks in the rhizosphere. This is the first primer set that covers diverse AHL synthetase genes from different genera. It will be a useful culture-independent approach for better understanding of the ecological significance of QS in natural habitats.
Immunodetections of carbohydrate surface antigens were carried out for SSEA-1 and SSEA-3. Using alkaline phosphatase for the detection of primordial germ cells these surface antigens were detected at the cell membrane and the cytoplasm of the germ cells at E 10.
The object of reviewing medical scientific research in humans is to offer guarantees against, especially, violations of physical integrity and privacy. Since the scientific interest is a matter of first importance, the research has to be checked for its reasonableness and for the test subject's consent. Omission of these checks in case the risk or stress to be expected is slight is contrary to these criteria. Reversion of the sequence of informed consent and randomization is contrary to the requirement of consent. Free, informed consent may be assumed if in a trial with a control group the test subject is informed beforehand about the study design and the risks, but is not told if he is to receive a standard therapy, a placebo or a test medication.
Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) is a cellular DNA-receptor widely expressed in cancers. We previously showed that synthetic and self-derived DNA fragments induce TLR9-mediated breast cancer cell invasion in vitro. We investigated here the invasive effects of two nuclease-resistant DNA fragments, a 9-mer hairpin, and a G-quadruplex DNA based on the human telomere sequence, both having native phosphodiester backbone. Cellular uptake of DNAs was investigated with immunofluorescence, invasion was studied with Matrigel-assays, and mRNA and protein expression were studied with qPCR and Western blotting and protease activity with zymograms. TLR9 expression was suppressed through siRNA. Although both DNAs induced TLR9-mediated changes in pro-invasive mRNA expression, only the telomeric G-quadruplex DNA significantly increased cellular invasion. This was inhibited with GM6001 and aprotinin, suggesting MMP- and serine protease mediation. Furthermore, complexing with LL-37, a cathelicidin-peptide present in breast cancers, increased 9-mer hairpin and G-quadruplex DNA uptake into the cancer cells. However, DNA/LL-37 complexes decreased invasion, as compared with DNA-treatment alone. Invasion studies were conducted also with DNA fragments isolated from neoadjuvant chemotherapy-treated breast tumors. Also such DNA induced breast cancer cell invasion in vitro. As with the synthetic DNAs, this invasive effect was reduced by complexing the neoadjuvant tumor-derived DNAs with LL-37. We conclude that 9-mer hairpin and G-quadruplex DNA fragments are nuclease-resistant DNA structures that can act as invasion-inducing TLR9 ligands. Their cellular uptake and the invasive effects are regulated via LL-37. Although such structures may be present in chemotherapy-treated tumors, the clinical significance of this finding requires further studying.
The transcription factor PPAR-gamma plays various roles in lipid metabolism, inflammation, cellular differentiation, and apoptosis. PPAR-gamma agonists used to treat diabetes may have utility in cancer treatment. Efatutazone is a novel later generation PPAR-gamma agonist that selectively activates PPAR-gamma target genes and has antiproliferative effects in a range of malignancies. In this study, we investigated PPAR-gamma status in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and investigated the antiproliferative effects of efatutazone. PPAR-gamma was expressed heterogeneously in ESCC, in which it exhibited an inverse relationship with Ki-67 expression. PPAR-gamma expression was associated independently with good prognosis in ESCC. Efatutazone, but not the conventional PPAR-gamma agonist troglitazone, inhibited ESCC cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistic investigations suggested that efatutazone acted by upregulating p21Cip1 protein in the nucleus through inactivation of the Akt pathway and dephosphorylation of p21Cip1 at Thr145 without affecting the transcriptional activity of p21Cip1. We also found that treatment with efatutazone led to phosphorylation of the EGF receptor and activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Accordingly, the combination of efatutazone with the antiepithelial growth factor receptor antibody cetuximab synergized to negatively regulate the phosphoinositide 3-kinase-Akt and MAPK pathways. Together, our results suggest that efatutazone, alone or in combination with cetuximab, may offer therapeutic effects in ESCC.
Despite the improvements in informatics associated with initiatives in the structure-based design and genomics fields, no straight-forward links are available between a given disease class and drug chemistry. This involves effective linking of disease to protein targets, and then mapping these targets to drug chemistry. In practice, protein-ligand structural analyses and high-throughput screening experiments generate the links between targets implicated in disease and chemical leads. Additionally, large volumes of relevant data are also being produced by high-throughput X-ray crystallography and in-silico docking initiatives. Each of these efforts takes a distinctly different approach to how data is managed and mined, resulting in difficulties in sharing data across each area. This review discusses the diverse approaches taken to data management in these areas, and the challenges associated with the construction of a data warehouse that meets all of the needs of each data type. Using the current work available for dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors, we demonstrate the challenges and opportunities associated with data mining from disease to drug chemistry.
We present multi-method case studies of two Zimbabwean primary schools - one rural and one small-town. The rural school scored higher than the small-town school on measures of child well-being and school attendance by HIV-affected children. The small-town school had superior facilities, more teachers with higher morale, more specialist HIV/AIDS activities, and an explicit religious ethos. The relatively impoverished rural school was located in a more cohesive community with a more critically conscious, dynamic and networking headmaster. The current emphasis on HIV/AIDS-related teacher training and specialist school-based activities should be supplemented with greater attention to impacts of school leadership and the nature of the school-community interface on the HIV-competence of schools.
BACKGROUND: Current models suggest that a variation in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) is associated with altered amygdala reactivity not only towards negative but also towards positive stimuli, which has been neglected in the past. This association may possibly convey an elevated vulnerability for psychopathology like abuse, craving, and relapses. Since appetitive conditioning is a crucial mechanism in the pathogenesis of these psychiatric disorders, the identification of specific factors contributing to interindividual variation is important. METHODS: In the present study (N = 86), an appetitive conditioning paradigm was conducted, in which a neutral stimulus (CS+) was associated with appetitive stimuli, while a second stimulus (CS-) predicted their absence. Subjects were genotyped according to the 5-HTTLPR genotype. RESULTS: As the main result, we report a significant association between the 5-HTTLPR genotype and hemodynamic responses. Individuals with the s-allele displayed elevated conditioned bilateral amygdala activity in contrast to l/l-allele carriers. Further, increased hemodynamic responses in s-allele carriers were also found in the extended emotional network including the orbitofrontal cortex, the thalamus, and the ventral striatum. CONCLUSION: The present findings indicate an association of the 5-HTTLPR and altered conditioned responses in appetitive conditioning. Further, the findings contribute to the ongoing debate on 5-HTTLPR dependent hemodynamic response patterns by emphasizing that s-allele carriers are not exclusively biased towards fearful, but also towards positive stimuli. In conclusion, our results imply that s-allele carriers might be better described as hyper-reactive towards salient stimuli, which may convey vulnerability for the development of psychiatric disorders.
For surgical operation in the functional area in the brain, it's commonly demanded to resect the lesion to the maximal extent on the basis of preserve the normal neural function, thus the precise localization of functional area is extremely important. As for the advantages of being widely available, easy to grasp and non-invasive, the functional MRI (fMRI) has come into wide use, while the application of language fMRI is still in the initial stage. It's important to choose appropriate fMRI task according to the individual condition of the subject, the commonly-adopted tasks include verb generation, picture naming, word recognition, word generation, etc. However, the effectiveness of using fMRI to localize language area is not totally satisfactory, adopting multiple task is an effective approach to improve the sensitivity of this technique. The application of resting state fMRI in the localization of language area and the further research of the role of fMRI in localizing the Chinese language area are the important future directions.
INTRODUCTION: Hydatidosis is the result of infection with the larval stages of some species of the genus Echinococcus. Treatment approaches for hydatid cysts include the use of albendazole, surgery, and/or medico-surgical procedures. The choice of the therapeutic surgical approach depends on the cyst number and localization, surgeon expertise, and presence of complications. The present study aimed to compare the outcomes of the following therapeutic approaches for the treatment of hepatic hydatid cysts: pericystectomy; the puncture, aspiration, injection, and reaspiration (PAIR) technique; and the PAIR technique followed by deroofing, evacuation of cysts, and omentoplasty. METHODS: The 54 patients were divided into 3 groups: Group I (14 patients) who underwent pericystectomy, Group II (23 patients) who underwent the PAIR technique, and Group III (17 patients) who underwent the PAIR technique followed by deroofing and omentoplasty. The diagnosis of hydatid cysts was based on serological testing using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, abdominal ultrasound, and parasitological examination of the cyst contents. Morbidity, mortality, length of hospital stay, recurrence, and postoperative complications were evaluated. RESULTS: Postoperative bleeding, infection, and recurrence were reported in Groups I and II; Group III did not experience postoperative infection and had shorter hospital stays. Recurrence and postoperative complications did not occur in Group III. CONCLUSIONS: The partial surgical procedure with deroofing, evacuation of the cysts, and omentoplasty, as performed in the present study, is recommended as a safe and effective method for elimination of the entire parasite with minimal possibility for intra-peritoneal spillage.
BACKGROUND: Patients with mitral restenosis who have undergone prior PTMC or surgical commissurotomy have increased. Predictors of outcome of repeat PTMC in either subgroup of patients may be different. AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Aim was to assess and compare the immediate results of PTMC in patients who had undergone a prior PTMC or surgical commissurotomy. METHODS AND RESULTS: This is a single center, prospective, open label study. Of 70 patients in study, 44 (62.85%) patients had prior history of PTMC and 26 (37.15%) had prior surgical commissurotomy (closed/open). Average time from the initial procedure was 8.88 +/- 5.36 years overall, 6.75 +/- 3.38 for patients with prior PTMC and 16.73 +/- 3.67 for patients with prior surgical commissurotomy. Prior PTMC group had 75% female, patients with prior surgical commissurotomy were older (44 +/- 7 vs 33.57 +/- 9.1 years, p = 0.001), had higher NYHA class (III/IV in100% vs 86.36%, p = 0.006.), higher atrial fibrillation (73.1% vs 25% p < 0.0001) and higher Wilkins' score (>8 in 88.46% vs 68.18%, p = 0.05). Successful PTMC was lower (65.4% vs 84.1%) in patients with prior surgical commissurotomy, though statistically not significant (p = 0.07). After PTMC, mitral valve area, PA systolic pressure, LA mean pressure and trans-mitral gradient were similar. Post procedure complications were not different in both the groups. CONCLUSION: PTMC for mitral restenosis in patients with prior surgical valvotomy is as effective as in patients with prior PTMC despite older age, higher NYHA class, higher Wilkins score and atrial fibrillation and can be considered in all patients with restenosis irrespective of the type of past procedures done.
AIM: We aimed to evaluate changes in insulin and glucagon secretion, as well as glucose levels, with a meal tolerance test (MTT) before and after 6 months of treatment with vildagliptin in a clinical setting. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Participants were 15 patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes mellitus (glycated hemoglobin [HbA1c] over 6.9% for more than 3 months). MTTs were conducted before and 6 months after addition of vildagliptin (50 mg twice daily [bid]). Blood samples were collected immediately before, and 1 and 2 h after the test meal for measurement of blood glucose concentration, immune-reactive insulin (IRI), and glucagon. HbA1c was measured at 6 months. RESULTS: Mean age of participants was 55.5 +/- 2.8 years, and ten (66.7%) were male. Mean HbA1c significantly improved from 7.6 to 6.8% at 6 months after addition of vildagliptin. Blood glucose at 1 and 2 h after the test meal was significantly reduced after addition of vildagliptin, while the reduction in glucagon showed borderline significance and IRI showed no difference. In a comparison of blood glucose-related parameters between subgroups based on median glucose change in area under the curve during MTT (DeltaAUC0-2h), glucagon DeltaAUC0-2h was significantly lower in the group with more improved glucose levels (DeltaAUC0-2h >/=65 mg/dL), but that of IRI did not differ. CONCLUSION: Suppression of glucagon release by vildagliptin may improve glycemic control without increasing insulin levels in patients with type 2 diabetes.
At least eight conserved motifs are visible in the totivirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDRP). We have systematically altered each of these in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae double-stranded RNA virus ScVL1 by substituting the conserved motifs from a giardiavirus. The results help define the conserved regions of the RDRP involved in polymerase function and those essential for other reasons.
The purpose of this study was to systematically review the current literature to determine the effect of a femoral derotation osteotomy (FDRO) on hip and pelvic rotation kinematics during gait compared to no intervention in children with spastic cerebral palsy (CP). We performed a systematic search for prospective and retrospective cohort studies of children with CP, who were treated with a FDRO, and were assessed with pre and post surgery three-dimensional gait analysis. Medline, CINAHL, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library and Web of Science were searched up to December 2013. Data sources were prospective and retrospective studies. Mean differences were calculated on pooled data for both pelvic and hip rotation kinematics. Thirteen of 196 articles met the inclusion criteria (5 prospective, 8 retrospective). All included studies were of sufficient quality for meta-analysis as assessed using a customised version of the STROBE checklist. Meta-analysis showed that FDRO significantly reduced pelvic retraction by 9.0 degrees and hip internal rotation by 17.6 degrees in participants with unilateral CP involvement and hip internal rotation by 14.3 degrees in participants with bilateral CP involvement. Pelvic symmetry in children with unilateral spastic CP is significantly improved by FDRO. Patients with bilateral involvement do not improve their transverse plane pelvic rotation profiles during gait as a result to FDRO, although this result should be interpreted with caution due to the heterogeneous nature of these participants and of the methods used in the studies assessed.
Growing evidence suggests that the elevation of free fatty acids, including palmitic acid (PA), are associated with inflammation and oxidative stress, which may be involved in endothelial dysfunction, characterized by the reduced bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO) synthesized from endothelial NO synthase (eNOS). Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is important in the preservation of NO bioavailability. Piceatannol (Pic), with similar chemical structure to resveratrol, is suggested to possess similar protective effects as resveratrol. In the present study, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), stimulated with PA, were used to examine the endothelial protective effects of Pic. Pic increased the expression of HO-1 via nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor-2 activation in the HUVECs, and decreased the PA-induced secretions of interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and the formation of reactive oxygen species ROS via inhibition of NF-kappaB activation. Notably, following inhibition of HO-1 activity by tin protoporphryin-IX, Pic did not prevent cytokine secretion, ROS formation, and NF-kappaB activation in the PA-stimulated HUVECs. PA attenuated insulin-mediated insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) tyrosine phosphorylation, leading to decreased glucose uptake, and phosphorylation of eNOS, leading to a reduction in the production of NO. Pic effectively mitigated the inhibitory effects of PA on the insulin-mediated phosphorylation of IRS-1 and eNOS, which was not observed following inhibition of HO1 activity. The results of the present study suggested that Pic may have the potential to prevent PA-induced impairment of insulin signaling and eNOS function, by inducing the expression of the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant, HO-1.
OBJECTIVE: Chronic infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) has been found to be associated with various diseases known as extra-hepatic manifestations of HCV. Recently, HCV has been implicated as a cause of the antiphospholipid syndrome (APLS). We conducted a study in a well-characterized area for epidemiological and prospective studies in the north-western part of Greece in order to address whether an aetiopathogenesis exists between HCV and APLS. DESIGN: Seventy-five patients with chronic hepatitis C were investigated for the presence of anti-cardiolipin antibodies (anti-CL) and for a past medical history supportive to the diagnosis of APLS. In addition, 24 patients with well-defined APLS (primary or secondary) and 12 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) were tested for the presence of markers of HCV infection (anti-HCV and HCV RNA). The SLE patients were anti-CL-positive but none of them had developed any of the known clinical features of APLS. In addition, 267 healthy subjects were investigated for the presence of anti-CL. METHODS: IgG and IgM anti-CL were determined by a quantitative isotype-specific solid phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay set up in our laboratory. Anti-HCV was determined using a third-generation enzyme immunoassay and a confirmatory third-generation recombinant immunoblot assay. Active virus replication was defined by the detection of HCV RNA using a combination assay based on a reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and a DNA enzyme immunoassay. RESULTS: Of the HCV patients, 37.3% had IgG and/or IgM anti-CL (P<0.00005 compared to healthy controls (2.25%)). However, the mean titres of each specific isotype were significantly lower in HCV patients compared with those found in the APLS patients (P<0.05 for IgM and P<0.001 for IgG isotypes). The mean titres of IgG anti-CL were also significantly lower in HCV patients compared with those found in the SLE patients (P<0.01). All patients with APLS or SLE (n = 36) tested negative for HCV infection markers. In addition, neither thrombotic events nor thrombocytopenia were associated with a positive anti-CL test in HCV patients. CONCLUSIONS: A significant proportion of HCV patients (37.3%) had detectable anti-CL of low titre. However, this finding was not associated with the development of APLS. On the other hand, none of the APLS patients was positive for HCV. Taken together, our data rather failed to reveal an aetiopathogenetic link between HCV and APLS. For this reason, testing for HCV in patients with APLS or follow-up for the possibility of the development of APLS in HCV patients cannot be suggested, at least in Greek patients. More prospective studies of longer duration are required in order to address whether HCV is involved or not in the aetiopathogenesis of APLS.
PURPOSE: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and Alzheimer disease (AD) are age-related neurodegenerative diseases that share similar environmental risk factors, cellular pathologies, and genetic backgrounds. Recently, the rs2075650 single nucleotide polymorphism in the translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 40 homolog (TOMM40) gene was identified as a risk factor for AMD and Alzheimer disease. We aimed to examine the associations between the TOMM40 rs2075650 polymorphism and neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) in a Chinese population. METHODS: The study consisted of 900 subjects, including 300 controls, 300 cases with nAMD, and 300 cases with PCV. Genomic DNA was extracted from venous blood leukocytes. The allelic variant of rs2075650 was determined with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Differences in the observed genotypic distributions between the case and control groups were tested using chi-square tests, with age and gender adjusted using logistic regression analysis. RESULTS: The TOMM40 rs2075650 polymorphism was not statistically significantly associated with the nAMD or PCV phenotype (p>0.05). The difference remained insignificant after correction for age and gender differences based on the logistic regression models (p>0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide no evidence to support an association of rs2075650 in TOMM40 with nAMD or PCV, suggesting that this gene is unlikely to be a major AMD and PCV susceptibility gene locus in the Chinese population.
The cochlea is known to be a nonlinear system that shows strong fluid-structure coupling. In this work, the monolithic state space approach to cochlear modeling [Rapson et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 131, 3925-3952 (2012)] is used to study the inherent nature of this coupling. Mathematical derivations requiring minimal, widely accepted assumptions about cochlear anatomy provide a clear description of the coupling. In particular, the coupling forces between neighboring cochlear partition segments are demonstrated, with implications for theories of cochlear operation that discount the traveling wave hypothesis. The derivations also reaffirm the importance of selecting a physiologically accurate value for the partition mass in any simulation. Numerical results show that considering the fluid properties in isolation can give a misleading impression of the fluid-structure coupling. Linearization of a nonlinear partition model allows the relationship between the linear and nonlinear fluid-structure interaction to be described. Furthermore, the effect of different classes of nonlinearities on the numerical complexity of a cochlear model is assessed. Cochlear models that assume outer hair cells are able to detect pressure will require implicit solver strategies, should the pressure sensitivity be demonstrated. Classical cochlear models in general do not require implicit solver strategies.
OBJECTIVE: The primary aims of this study are to compare neck disability in masticatory myofascial pain subjects versus asymptomatic controls, and to evaluate the correlation between neck disability and muscle pain. DESIGN: Two groups composed this case-control study: a symptomatic group comprised of 27 subjects diagnosed with masticatory myofascial pain, as determined by the Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders (RDC/TMD), and a control group comprised of 28 asymptomatic subjects. The collected variables were pain intensity (visual analogue scale), pressure pain threshold of the temporomandibular joint, anterior temporalis, masseter, sternocleidomastoid muscle, upper trapezius and Achilles tendon (digital dynamometer, kgf/cm(2)), and neck disability (Neck Disability Index). Statistical analysis included Student's t-test and the Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient (5% significance level and 95% confidence interval). RESULTS: The symptomatic group showed greater neck disability with a mean (SD) of 11.8 (7), as compared with 2.8 (2.4) for the asymptomatic group (p<0.05). A negative correlation was found between neck disability and pressure pain threshold of the anterior temporalis (r=-0.4, 95% CI -0.6 to -0.15, p=0.002), the sternocleidomastoid (r=-0.35, 95% CI -0.56 to -0.09, p=0.007) and the upper trapezius (r=-0.37, 95% CI -0.58 to -0.12, p=0.005). CONCLUSION: Our results reinforced the clinical interconnection between masticatory and cervical structures, insofar as subjects with masticatory myofascial pain reported greater neck disability, which, in turn, was correlated with regional muscle sensitivity.
In C. elegans, a TGFbeta-related signaling pathway regulates body size. Loss of function of the signaling ligand (dbl-1), receptors (daf-4 and sma-6) or Smads (sma-2, sma-3 and sma-4) results in viable, but smaller animals because of a reduction in postembryonic growth. We have investigated the tissue specificity of this pathway in body size regulation. We show that different tissues are reduced in size by different proportions, with hypodermal blast cell size most closely proportional to body size. We show that SMA-3 Smad is expressed in pharynx, intestine and hypodermis, as has been previously reported for the type I receptor SMA-6. Furthermore, we find that SMA-3::GFP is nuclear localized in all of these tissues, and that nuclear localization is enhanced by SMA-6 activity. Interestingly, SMA-3 protein accumulation was found to be negatively regulated by the level of Sma/Mab pathway activity. Using genetic mosaic analysis and directed expression of SMA-3, we find that SMA-3 activity in the hypodermis is necessary and sufficient for normal body size. As dbl-1 is expressed primarily in the nervous system, these results suggest a model in which postembryonic growth of hypodermal cells is regulated by TGFbeta-related signaling from the nervous system to the hypodermis.
Patterns of salivary HCO secretion vary widely among species and among individual glands. In particular, virtually nothing is known about the molecular identity of the HCO transporters involved in human salivary secretion. We have therefore examined the distribution of several known members of the Na(+)-HCO cotransporter (NBC) family in the parotid and submandibular glands. By use of a combination of RT-PCR and immunoblotting analyses, the electroneutral cotransporters NBC3 and NBCn1 mRNA and protein expression were detected in both human and rat tissues. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that NBC3 was present at the apical membranes of acinar and duct cells in both human and rat parotid and submandibular glands. NBCn1 was strongly expressed at the basolateral membrane of striated duct cells but not in the acinar cells in the human salivary glands, whereas little or no NBCn1 labeling was observed in the rat salivary glands. The presence of NBCn1 at the basolateral membrane of human striated duct cells suggests that it may contribute to ductal HCO secretion. In contrast, the expression of NBC3 at the apical membranes of acinar and duct cells in both human and rat salivary glands indicates a possible role of this isoform in HCO salvage under resting conditions.
Major uncertainties of biological measurements in respect of parameters to which they are referred, cytochemical techniques, subcellular fractionation, light microscopy, electron microscopy, examination of cell membranes, dimensions of cells and intracellular movements, are discussed. The assumptions inherent in widely used techniques are noted and their warrant-ability examined. The impact of insufficient control experiments is shown to be considerable. A few important pieces of evidence in current generally accepted theories--mostly from neurobiology--are highlighted. All these problems represent incomplete experiments, from which it is premature to draw conclusions.
Mice can gather tactile sensory information by actively moving their whiskers to palpate objects in their immediate surroundings. Whisker sensory perception therefore requires integration of sensory and motor information, which occurs prominently in the neocortex. The signalling pathways from the neocortex for controlling whisker movements are currently poorly understood in mice. Here, we delineate two pathways, one originating from primary whisker somatosensory cortex (wS1) and the other from whisker motor cortex (wM1), that control qualitatively distinct movements of contralateral whiskers. Optogenetic stimulation of wS1 drove retraction of contralateral whiskers while stimulation of wM1 drove rhythmic whisker protraction. To map brainstem pathways connecting these cortical areas to whisker motor neurons, we used a combination of anterograde tracing using adenoassociated virus injected into neocortex and retrograde tracing using monosynaptic rabies virus injected into whisker muscles. Our data are consistent with wS1 driving whisker retraction by exciting glutamatergic premotor neurons in the rostral spinal trigeminal interpolaris nucleus, which in turn activate the motor neurons innervating the extrinsic retractor muscle nasolabialis. The rhythmic whisker protraction evoked by wM1 stimulation might be driven by excitation of excitatory and inhibitory premotor neurons in the brainstem reticular formation innervating both intrinsic and extrinsic muscles. Our data therefore begin to unravel the neuronal circuits linking the neocortex to whisker motor neurons.
This study aimed to evaluate in vitro effects of Rheum undulatum L. root on the development of dental caries, especially its effects on viability, dental plaque formation, and glycolytic acid production of Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus sobrinus. Methanol extract of Rheum undulatum L. root and its fractions were prepared and tested. Among the test extract and fractions, dichloromethane fraction (DF) showed the most active antibacterial activity (inhibition zone: 13-17 mm) against S. mutans and S. sobrinus in a disc diffusion method. Minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of DF against these bacteria ranged from 0.25 to 0.5 mg/mL. Furthermore, DF significantly inhibited the caries-inducing factors of these bacteria. At sub-MIC levels, DF inhibited in vitro dental plaque formation by S. mutans and S. sobrinus (IC50= 0.079 and 0.142 mg/mL, respectively), which was caused, in part, by the inhibitory effect on the activity of glucosyltransferases. A significant reduction of glycolytic acid production was found at the concentration as low as 0.032 mg/mL for S. mutans and 0.063 mg/mL for S. sobrinus. The possible bioactive compounds that are inducing in vitro anti-cariogenic activity of DF are unknown. Based on the preliminary phytochemical analysis, the activity of DF may be related to the presence of anthraquinones, cardiac glycosides, coumarines, sterols/terpenes, and phenolics. These results indicate that DF is probably useful for the control of dental plaque formation and subsequent dental caries development.
BACKGROUND: Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) ruptures are among the most severe musculoskeletal soft tissue injuries. However, the exact mechanisms which cause these acute injuries are unknown. Recently, sequence variants within two genes, namely COL1A1 and COL5A1, which code for the alpha1 chains of types I and V collagen respectively, were shown to be associated with ACL ruptures. Type XII collagen, similarly to types I and V collagen, is a structural component of the ligament fibril and is encoded by a single gene, COL12A1. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate whether sequence variants within COL12A1 are associated with ACL ruptures. METHODS: One hundred and twenty-nine (38 female) participants with clinically and surgically diagnosed ACL ruptures, as well as 216 (83 female) physically active controls participants (CON) without any history of ACL injury were included in this case-control genetic association study. All participants were genotyped for the AluI and BsrI restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) within COL12A1. RESULTS: The AA genotype of the COL12A1 AluI RFLP was significantly over-represented in the female (OR=2.4, 95% CI 1.0 to 5.5, p=0.048), but not male (p=0.359) ACL participants. There were no genotype differences between the ACL and CON group for the BsrI RFLP. CONCLUSION: The COL12A1 AluI RFLP is associated with ACL ruptures among female participants in this study. The results suggest that females with an AA genotype are at increased risk of ACL ruptures. These initial genetic association studies should be explored further and, if repeated, incorporated into multifactorial models developed to identify predisposed individuals.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the survival of neural stem cell (NSC) infected by recombinant adenovirus with GFP (Ad-GFP) and the expression of GFP in normal rat cochlea and their potential effect on auditory function and cochlea structures via round window transplantation. METHODS: In comparison with the normal rats without any transplantation (Group III), normal rat cochleae were transplanted with NSC infected with Ad-GFP (Group I) or the artificial perilymph (Group II) via round windows. Auditory functions were monitored by thresholds of auditory brain stem responses (ABR); the cochlea structures were examined by HE staining; survivals of implanted NSC were determined by the expression of GFP; survivals of hair cells were accessed by whole mount preparation. RESULTS: Neither at pre-transplantation nor at post-transplantation, there were significant differences in the click-ABR thresholds in rats between Group I and Group II (P > 0.05). There were no significant differences in these values before and after transplantation in the same rats from each group. After transplantation, the cochlea structures were normal in both Group I & Group II. Grafted NSC was visualized by the GFP expression in every turn of the cochlea in all animals of Group I. There were no significant differences in the loss of outer hair cell (OHC) among three groups. The inner hair cell (IHC) and most OHC were normal in every turns of cochleae of all groups. CONCLUSIONS: The embryonic NSC infected with Ad-GFP could survive and express the GFP gene in normal rat cochlea after transplantation via round window, which had not obvious affection to auditory function and inner ear pathology of rat cochlea.
Allergic reactions occurring after tattooing, especially after the use of red tattoo ink ingredients are relatively rare. We report a painful skin reaction occurring 6 months after the tattoing of the right lower extremity in a 30-year-old female patient. Pathohistological and immunchemical results confirmed a pseudolymphoma. Only the tangential excision of the affected areas led to a sufficient healing process. Split thickness skin grafts were used for defect coverage. 2 years later, the patient was still pain free and the wounds had healed completely without any irritation.
Despite the identification and characterization of cell surface receptors for the extracellular matrix, it is unknown how their relative expression and cytoskeletal association regulate cell migration. Previous studies have identified beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (GalTase; EC 2.4.1.38) on the surface of migrating cells, where it mediates cell migration on basal lamina matrices by associating with the cytoskeleton and binding to N-linked oligosaccharides in the E8 domain of laminin. In this study, the function of GalTase during cell migration was examined directly by analyzing the migration rate of stably transfected cell lines in which the relative level of surface GalTase and its ability to associate with the cytoskeleton were altered. We show here that the cytoskeleton contains a limiting, saturable, number of binding sites for surface GalTase. Furthermore, the rate of cell migration was inversely related to the ability of surface GalTase to associate with the cytoskeleton. Elevating surface GalTase in excess of the number of cytoskeleton-binding sites reduced the rate of cell migration, whereas decreasing the amount of surface GalTase available to bind the cytoskeleton increased migration rates. These results show that the rate of cell migration on basal lamina is directly dependent upon the expression of surface GalTase and the ability of this protein to associate with a limiting number of cytoskeleton-binding sites.
A new level of understanding of pigment cell biology and pathology will require the ability to culture and manipulate melanocyte stem cells (MCSCs) in vitro. In this issue, Nishikawa-Torikai et al. report progress toward this end. MCSCs isolated from mouse hair follicles can be expanded in vitro in a feeder-layer culture system. Application to human systems can be expected.
The mapping of the photosynthetic membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by atomic force microscopy (AFM) revealed a unique organization of arrays of dimeric reaction center-light harvesting I-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) core complexes surrounded and interconnected by light-harvesting LH2 complexes (Bahatyrova, S., Frese, R. N., Siebert, C. A., Olsen, J. D., van der Werf, K. O., van Grondelle, R., Niederman, R. A., Bullough, P. A., Otto, C., and Hunter, C. N. (2004) Nature 430, 1058-1062). However, membrane regions consisting solely of LH2 complexes were under-represented in these images because these small, highly curved areas of membrane rendered them difficult to image even using gentle tapping mode AFM and impossible with contact mode AFM. We report AFM imaging of membranes prepared from a mutant of R. sphaeroides, DPF2G, that synthesizes only the LH2 complexes, which assembles spherical intracytoplasmic membrane vesicles of approximately 53 nm diameter in vivo. By opening these vesicles and adsorbing them onto mica to form small, < or =120 nm, largely flat sheets we have been able to visualize the organization of these LH2-only membranes for the first time. The transition from highly curved vesicle to the planar sheet is accompanied by a change in the packing of the LH2 complexes such that approximately half of the complexes are raised off the mica surface by approximately 1 nm relative to the rest. This vertical displacement produces a very regular corrugated appearance of the planar membrane sheets. Analysis of the topographs was used to measure the distances and angles between the complexes. These data are used to model the organization of LH2 complexes in the original, curved membrane. The implications of this architecture for the light harvesting function and diffusion of quinones in native membranes of R. sphaeroides are discussed.
BACKGROUND: Gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity is a common effect following radiation therapy (RT) for prostate cancer. Purpose of the present work is to compare two Normal Tissue Complication Probability (NTCP) modelling approaches for prediction of late radio-induced GI toxicity after prostate external beam radiotherapy. METHODS: The study includes 84 prostate cancer patients evaluated for late rectal toxicity after 3D conformal radiotherapy. Median age was 72 years (range 53-85). All patients received a total dose of 76 Gy to the prostate gland with daily fractions of 2 Gy. The acute and late radio-induced GI complications were classified according to the RTOG/EORTC scoring system. Rectum dose-volume histograms were extracted for Lyman-Kutcher-Burman (LKB) NTCP model fitting using Maximum Likelihood Estimation. The bootstrap method was employed to test the fit robustness. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was used to evaluate the predictive power of the LKB and to compare it with a multivariate logistic NTCP model previously determined. RESULTS: At a median follow-up of 36 months, 42% (35/84) of patients experienced grade 1-2 (G1-2) acute GI events while 25% (21/84) of patients developed G1-2 late GI events. The best-estimate of fitting parameters for LKB NTCP model for mild\moderate GI toxicity resulted to be: D 50 = 87.3 Gy, m = 0.37 and n = 0.10. Bootstrap result showed that the parameter fit was robust. The AUC values for the LKB and for the multivariate logistic models were 0.60 and 0.75, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: We derived the parameters of the LKB model for mild\moderate GI toxicity prediction and we compared its performance with that of a data-driven multivariate model. Compared to LKB, the multivariate model confirmed a higher predictive power as showed by the AUC values.
Preterm premature rupture of the foetal membranes (fruher vorzeitiger Blasensprung) has remained a devastating complication of pregnancy with very high risk of pregnancy loss. Several methods of sealing spontaneously ruptured membranes to stop amniotic fluid leakage and prolong pregnancy have been tested, but no one of them has achieved a clinical breakthrough. Also, needle and foetoscopic puncture of membranes for diagnostic or surgical interventions in the amniotic cavity carry a significant risk of persistent membrane leakage and subsequent rupture - thus limiting the developing field of intrauterine foetal surgery. Efforts are concentrated on taking action before rupture rather than reacting after rupture: one avenue of research concerns prophylactic plugging of foetoscopic access sites in foetal membranes at the time of intervention, thus inhibiting leakage and rupture. Foetal membrane injuries, spontaneous or iatrogenic, constitute extreme challenges to repair: thinness of foetal membrane tissue, difficult localisation and accessibility of the rupture site, the need for injectable sealants, wet gluing conditions and poor wound healing in this tissue all complicate repair. The goal is to achieve immediate and at the same time long-lasting closure of the membrane leak. Here we review approaches to closure of foetal membrane defects with liquid sealants or solid biomaterial scaffolds, with the focus on prophylactic plugging of foetoscopic access sites.
Neural crest cells are the primary innovation that led to evolution of the vertebrates, and transcription factors of the SoxE family (Sox8, Sox9 and Sox10) are among the central players regulating the development of these cells. In all vertebrates examined to date, one or more SoxE proteins are required for the formation of neural crest cells, the maintenance of their multipotency, and their survival. Later, SoxE proteins drive the formation of multiple neural crest derivatives including chondrocytes, melanocytes, and cells of the peripheral nervous system, particularly Schwann cells/peripheral glia. Given their multiple diverse roles in the development of the neural crest, it is important to understand how the activity of SoxE factors is controlled such that they direct the correct developmental outcome. While combinatorial control with other regulatory factors is clearly one mechanism for generating such functional versatility, modulation of SoxE activity, both by SoxD family factors and by post-translational modification, also appears to be important. Elucidating the mechanisms that control SoxE function is essential to understand the evolutionary origin of the vertebrates, as well as a host of SoxE-linked syndromes and diseases, and may prove crucial for developing stem cell based therapies that target SoxE-regulated cell types.
Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a transcription factor activated by xenobiotics, including dioxins and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Although AhR is also activated by some dietary constituents, it has not been completely clarified in what circumstances AhR ligands are ingested in our daily life. Because PAHs are formed by the incomplete combustion of organic materials, we hypothesized that scorched foods might contain and leach out AhR ligands sufficient to stimulate AhR in vitro. To test this hypothesis, scorched foods (bread, cheese, etc.) were mixed vigorously with water, and the supernatants were retrieved as samples. The samples were added to HepG2 cells stably expressing an AhR-responsive reporter gene. Also, expression of CYP1A1, an endogenous AhR-responsive gene, was analyzed by RT-PCR in different cell lines treated with the samples. We further tested whether pretreatment of the samples with activated charcoal would alter their AhR-stimulating activity. All the supernatant samples tested induced AhR-dependent reporter gene activity and CYP1A1 mRNA expression. In some samples, these inductions were inhibited by pretreatment with activated charcoal. Our findings indicate that scorched food leachates stimulate AhR in cultured cells and that activated charcoal adsorbs the AhR-stimulating substances in some leachates. Thus, people who habitually eat scorched foods are exposed to AhR ligands on a regular basis. Further studies are needed to elucidate whether burnt foods actually exert biological effects on our health.
For a long time, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptors permeable to calcium have been considered to be either non-existent or as "atypical". There is now ample evidence that these receptors exist in numerous regions of the nervous system and in many neuronal as well as non-neuronal cell populations. This evidence has been accumulated by several methods, including electrophysiological recording, calcium imaging and cobalt-loading. Functional AMPA receptors permeable to calcium are already expressed at very early stages of embryonic development, well before the onset of synaptogenesis. They are probably involved in the paracrine signaling necessary for construction of the nervous system before becoming involved in synaptic transmission. In immature cells, cyclothiazide strongly increases the steady-state level of responses not only to AMPA, but also to kainate. Ingestion, during pregnancy, of food or drug substances that can cross the placental barrier and act upon the embryonic receptors may constitute a risk for normal development. In the adult nervous system, synaptic as well as non-synaptic (paracrine) AMPA receptors permeable to calcium are probably widely expressed in both glial and neuronal cells. They may also participate in controlling some aspects related to adult neurogenesis, in particular the migration of newly formed neurons.
Exposure to high temperature or other stresses induces a synthesis of heat shock proteins. Many of these proteins are molecular chaperones, and some of them help cells to cope with heat-induced denaturation and aggregation of other proteins. In the last decade, chaperones have received increased attention in connection with their role in maintenance and propagation of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae prions, infectious or heritable agents transmitted at the protein level. Recent data suggest that functioning of the chaperones in reactivation of heat-damaged proteins and in propagation of prions is based on the same molecular mechanisms but may lead to different consequences depending on the type of aggregate. In both cases the concerted and balanced action of "chaperones' team," including Hsp104, Hsp70, Hsp40 and possibly other proteins, determines whether a misfolded protein is to be incorporated into an aggregate, rescued to the native state or targeted for degradation.
OBJECTIVE: Age-related changes are well documented in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Based on previous somatosensory evoked potential studies, the amplitude of N20 typically increases with age probably due to cortical disinhibition. However, less is known about age-related change in the secondary somatosensory cortex (SII). The current study quantified age-related changes across SI and SII mainly based on oscillatory activity indices measured with magnetoencephalography. METHODS: We recorded somatosensory evoked magnetic fields (SEFs) to right median nerve stimulation in healthy young and old subjects and assessed major SEF components. Then, we evaluated the phase-locking factor (PLF) for local field synchrony on neural oscillations and the weighted phase-lag index (wPLI) for cortico-cortical synchrony between SI and SII. RESULTS: PLF was significantly increased in SI along with the increased amplitude of N20m in the old subjects. PLF was also increased in SII associated with a shortened peak latency of SEFs. wPLI analysis revealed the increased coherent activity between SI and SII. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the functional coupling between SI and SII is influenced by the cortical disinhibition due to normal aging. SIGNIFICANCE: We provide the first electrophysiological evidence for age-related changes in oscillatory neural activities across the somatosensory areas.
The urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) is a glycosylphosphatidyl inositol-anchored protein that mediates cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix protein vitronectin (VN). We demonstrate here that this cell adhesion process is accompanied by the formation of an adhesion patch characterized by an accumulation of uPAR into areas of direct contact between the cell and the matrix. The adhesion patch requires the glycolipid anchor and develops only on a VN-coated substrate, but not on fibronectin. It consists of detergent-insoluble microdomains that accumulate F-actin and tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins, but not beta(1) integrins. Lack of inhibition of adhesion in the presence of integrin-blocking reagents and adhesion on a VN fragment without the RGD sequence indicated that the adhesion of uPAR-bearing cells on VN could occur independently of integrins. Hence, uPAR-mediated cell adhesion on VN relies on the formation of a unique cellular structure that we have termed "detergent-insoluble adhesion patch" (DIAP).
Monitoring patients treated with single antineoplastic agents is aiding our understanding of what hazard these drugs pose in vivo. In this study, the frequency of mutant 6-thioguanine-resistant (TG(R)) peripheral blood lymphocytes was monitored before treatment and for < or =35 weeks after treatment of patients with cyclophosphamide (CP) or chlorambucil (CAB). The mean mutant frequency before treatment for six multiple sclerosis patients treated with high-dose CP was 2.53 x 10(-5) and increased after treatment to 4.61 x 10(-5) (P = 0.08, paired t-test). Using each patient as their own control, there were significant increases (each at P < 0.04) detectable within 2-4 weeks in four of the multiple sclerosis patients treated with CP. There was no increase in an untreated control monitored over the same period. In a patient receiving five sequential CP treatments at 1 month intervals, there were cumulative increases in the frequency of mutant cells. The mutant frequency increased from 0.31 x 10(-5) before treatment to 3.64 x 10(-5) after the final treatment and had decreased to 0.53 x 10(-5) at 35 weeks after treatment. In one of two CAB-treated patients with indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, there was a significant increase in mutant frequency (P < 0.03) after treatment. Freshly isolated peripheral blood lymphocytes treated with 4-hydroperoxy-CP in vitro demonstrate a dose-dependent increase in mutant frequency. The increment in mutant frequency observed in vivo is of the order expected from the in vitro experiments. Although this study demonstrates that single or multiple doses of a single antineoplastic agent are mutagenic in vivo for some patients, further studies are needed to determine the extent and mechanism of the inter-individual variations in mutagenic response.
Chicken heat shock protein 108 (HSP108), the avian homolog of GRP94, was originally isolated from hen oviduct and binds Fe-ovotransferrin (Fe-OTf). The liver is also a rich source, and liver membranes bind Fe-OTf with a KD of 1.7 x 10(-7) M, a value similar to oviduct membranes. A competition assay, based on the binding of 125I-Fe-OTf to liver membranes, was utilized to examine the binding specificity of HSP108. Ovalbumin and avidin competed effectively, with KD's of 1.8 x 10(-7) M and 1.4 x 10(-7) M, respectively. Iron-free OTf bound with a 10-fold higher KD. Egg white lysozyme, chicken IgG, human transferrin, rabbit muscle actin, and porcine insulin do not bind. Neither do denatured ovalbumin or ovalbumin tryptic peptides. Thus, the binding activity of HSP108 is not restricted to Fe-OTf, nor is it universal.
The cell adhesion molecule Neuroligin2 (NL2) is localized selectively at GABAergic synapses, where it interacts with the scaffolding protein gephyrin in the post-synaptic density. However, the role of this interaction for formation and plasticity of GABAergic synapses is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that endogenous NL2 undergoes proline-directed phosphorylation at its unique S714-P consensus site, leading to the recruitment of the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase Pin1. This signalling cascade negatively regulates NL2's ability to interact with gephyrin at GABAergic post-synaptic sites. As a consequence, enhanced accumulation of NL2, gephyrin and GABAA receptors was detected at GABAergic synapses in the hippocampus of Pin1-knockout mice (Pin1-/-) associated with an increase in amplitude of spontaneous GABAA-mediated post-synaptic currents. Our results suggest that Pin1-dependent signalling represents a mechanism to modulate GABAergic transmission by regulating NL2/gephyrin interaction.
Using fluorescence immunocytochemistry, transmission electron microscopy and Western blotting, we have shown that caveolae and caveolin are abundant on chondrocytes of different cartilaginous structures of newborn and adult rat knee joints. Caveolin was detected in chondrocytes of the outer layer of articular cartilage, in the fibrocartilage of the menisci, and in fibrocartilage-like cells at tendon and ligament insertions. Electron microscopical studies revealed caveolae-like invaginations along the plasmalemmal membrane of articular chondrocytes and fibrocartilage cells. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated caveolin in detergent-insoluble and soluble complexes isolated from cultured rat chondrocytes.
A 2 1/2 year old girl is reported with a de novo 13;18 unbalanced translocation and the facial features of Williams syndrome, subaortic stenosis, failure to thrive, and developmental delay. This case provides two candidate locations for the underlying molecular pathology of this sporadic syndrome. Williams syndrome is associated with intellectual and growth retardation, infantile feeding problems which may be associated with hypercalcaemia, cardiovascular abnormalities, a friendly, loquacious personality, and a typical facies. The cause is not known and only a few chromosome abnormalities have been reported in patients with the Williams syndrome phenotype. Many papers fail to mention chromosome studies. We report a girl with an unbalanced 13;18 translocation and the Williams syndrome phenotype.
The facilitated diffusion of glucose, galactose, fructose, urate, myoinositol, and dehydroascorbicacid in mammals is catalyzed by a family of 14 monosaccharide transport proteins called GLUTs. These transporters may be divided into three classes according to sequence similarity and function/substrate specificity. GLUT1 appears to be highly expressed in glycolytically active cells and has been coopted in vitamin C auxotrophs to maintain the redox state of the blood through transport of dehydroascorbate. Several GLUTs are definitive glucose/galactose transporters, GLUT2 and GLUT5 are physiologically important fructose transporters, GLUT9 appears to be a urate transporter while GLUT13 is a proton/myoinositol cotransporter. The physiologic substrates of some GLUTs remain to be established. The GLUTs are expressed in a tissue specific manner where affinity, specificity, and capacity for substrate transport are paramount for tissue function. Although great strides have been made in characterizing GLUT-catalyzed monosaccharide transport and mapping GLUT membrane topography and determinants of substrate specificity, a unifying model for GLUT structure and function remains elusive. The GLUTs play a major role in carbohydrate homeostasis and the redistribution of sugar-derived carbons among the various organ systems. This is accomplished through a multiplicity of GLUT-dependent glucose sensing and effector mechanisms that regulate monosaccharide ingestion, absorption,distribution, cellular transport and metabolism, and recovery/retention. Glucose transport and metabolism have coevolved in mammals to support cerebral glucose utilization.
BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the commonest cancer among women in industrialized countries. Most sporadic breast carcinomas are likely to be caused by low-penetrance genes. Genes encoding enzymes involved in estrogen and carcinogen metabolism are among these low-penetrance genes. In this study, for the first time the T/C (A1/A2) polymorphism at the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of CYP17 and the Arg/Trp (T/C) polymorphism at codon 39 of CYP19 among genes regulating endogenous estrogen levels was studied. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fifty-five female breast cancer patients and ninety-one controls took part in the study. DNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues for the patients and from blood cells for the controls. The distribution of genotypes was determined using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) techniques. RESULTS: The frequency of the TC genotype of CYP19 was significantly higher in the patient group (p<0.001, kappa(2): 12.31, OR: 7.30, 95% CI: 2.29-25.64). CYP17 frequencies were similar to those in Caucasian populations. In combined analysis, when the high risk alleles were evaluated together, the results reached significance (p=0.006, kappa(2)=7.01, OR: 2.53, %95 CI: 1.26-5.07) for the A2 allele of CYP17 and the C allele of CYP19, being more frequent in the patient group compared to the control. The risk possesed by the TC varient of CYP19 was reduced when evaluated with A1, the protective allele of CYP17 (p=0.082). The cumulative protective effects of both A1 allele and the TT genotype were ascertained to occur significantly less frequently in the patient group (p=0.001, kappa(2): 10.53, OR: 8.47, %95 CI: 1.9-37.04). CONCLUSION: The results were consistent with the individual studies of CYP17 and CYP19 in the literature, however, in combined analysis of the alleles of the two genes, the frequency of high risk alleles was higher and the frequencies of low risk alleles were lower in the patient group. The CYP17 A1 + CYP19 TT haplotype may be protective for breast cancer.
This 24-year-old soldier had a history of polytrauma caused by firearm missiles of a fragmentation weapon. He was referred to the Hospital Militar Central, where multiple shrapnel wounds in the head, face, thorax, and extremities were found. A brain abscess was documented and drained, and a culture grew a multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii. An appropriate antibiotic treatment was started but did not lead to a good response, and the patient died. The clinical course of the illness is presented, as is its treatment and the role of A baumannii as an etiological agent of a brain abscess. To the authors' knowledge, there have been no reported cases in the worldwide literature of brain abscess by this infectious agent.
The expression of substance P (SP) was examined in dentate nucleus (DN) of human cerebellum. A spatial and temporal sequence was observed in the innervation of the DN. SP appeared at 9-10 weeks and was dense in the dorsomedial region of DN. The SP immunoreactivity continued to increase until 19-21 weeks and showed a decline in the dorsomedial region by 24 weeks. By now, however, the ventrolateral region had a denser innervation. There is thus seemingly a relation between SP innervation and gyri formation in DN. SP-positive fibers were also localized in the neuroepithelium of the IV ventricle at all the ages studied. SP-positive fibers, however, reached the cerebellar cortex only by 24 weeks.
The downy mildew pathogen of basil (Ocimum spp.) has caused considerable damage throughout the past five years, and an end to the epidemics is not in sight. The downy mildew of coleus (Solenostemon spp.) is just emerging and here we report that it was very recently introduced into Germany. Although it has been recognised that these pathogens are a major threat, the identity of the pathogens is still unresolved, and so it is difficult to devise quarantine measures against them. Using morphological comparison and molecular phylogenetic reconstructions we confirmed in this study that the downy mildews of basil and coleus are unrelated to Peronospora lamii, which is a common pathogen of the weed Lamium purpureum. In addition, we conclude by the investigation of the type specimen of P. swingleii and downy mildew specimens on Salvia officinalis that the newly occurring pathogens are not identical to P. swingleii on Salvia reflexa. The taxonomy of the downy mildew pathogens of hosts from the Lamiaceae and, in particular, from the tribes Mentheae and Elsholtzieae, is discussed, and a new species is described to accommodate the downy mildew pathogen of basil and coleus, which is the first downy mildew pathogen known to be parasitic to hosts of the tribe Ocimeae.
Objective. The objective of this study was to find out the possible antiulcer mechanism of action of Eremomastax speciosa. Method. Carbachol- and histamine-induced hypersecretion, associated with the pylorus ligation technique, were used in rats. Gastric mucosal ulceration, mucus production, pH, gastric volume, and acidity were measured. Results. Histamine and carbachol raised gastric acidity to 86.50 and 84.80 mEq/L, respectively, in the control rats, and the extracts (200 mg/kg) reduced gastric acidity to 34.60 and 39.00 mEq/L, respectively. Intraduodenal aqueous extract (400 mg/kg) in histamine- and carbachol-treated rats produced significant (P < 0.001) decreases in acid secretion to 28.50 and 28.80 mEq/L, respectively, and 100 percent inhibition of gastric ulceration. Augmented histamine-induced gastric acid secretion (90.20 mEq/L) was significantly reduced to 52.60 and 27.50 mEq/L by the 200 and 400 mg/kg doses of the aqueous extract, respectively. The extract significantly reduced (P < 0.001) the volume of gastric secretion and significantly increased mucus production. The ulcer inhibition potential of the extract significantly dropped to 25-44% (oral extract) and to 29-37% (duodenal extract) in carbachol/indomethacin-treated rats. Conclusion. The aqueous extract of E. speciosa has both cytoprotective and antisecretory effects. The antisecretory effect may involve a mechanism common to both cholinergic and histaminergic pathways.
Droplet microfluidics provides a high-throughput platform for screening subjects and conditions involved in biology. Droplets with encapsulated beads and cells have been increasingly used for studying molecular and cellular biology. Droplet sorting is needed to isolate and analyze the subject of interest during such screening. The vast majority of current sorting techniques use fluorescence intensity emitted by each droplet as the only criterion. However, due to the randomness and imperfections in the encapsulation process, typically a mixed population of droplets with an uneven number of encapsulated particles results and is used for screening. Thus droplet sorting based on the number of encapsulated particles becomes necessary for isolating or enriching droplets with a specific occupancy. In this work, we developed a fluorescence-activated microfluidic droplet sorter that integrated a simple deflection mechanism based on the use of a solenoid valve and a sophisticated signal processing system with a microcontroller as the core. By passing droplets through a narrow interrogation channel, the encapsulated particles were detected individually. The microcontroller conducted the computation to determine the number of encapsulated particles in each droplet and made the sorting decision accordingly that led to actuation of the solenoid valve. We tested both fluorescent beads and stained cells and our results showed high efficiency and accuracy for sorting and enrichment.
DNA sequence information for the small-subunit rRNA gene (16S rDNA) obtained from cyanobacterial cultures was used to investigate the presence of cyanobacteria and their abundance in natural habitats. Eight planktonic communities developing in lakes characterized by relatively low algal biomass (mesotrophic) and in lakes with correspondingly high biomass (eutrophic) were selected for the study. The organismal compositions of the water samples were analyzed genetically, using multiplex sequence-specific labeling of oligonucleotide probes targeted to 16S rDNA and subsequent hybridization of the labeled probes to their respective complements spotted onto a solid support (DNA array). Ten probes were established to determine the relative abundances of the discernible cyanobacteria encountered in the selected lakes. The probes were generally specific for their targets, as determined through analyses of clone cultures. Reproducible abundance profiles were established for the lakes investigated in the subsequent analyses of natural cyanobacterial communities. The results from the genetic analyses were then compared with information obtained from standard hydrobiological and hydrochemical analyses. Qualitatively, there were relatively good correlations among the groups of organisms (Nostoc, Microcystis, and Planktothrix species) found in the different lakes. The levels of correlation were lower for the quantitative data. This may, however, be due to differences in sample processing technique. The conclusions from these comparisons are that the genetic abundance profiles may provide a foundation for separating and quantifying genetically distinct groups of cyanobacteria in their natural habitats.
Class III chitin synthases play important roles in tip growth and conidiation in many filamentous fungi. However, little is known about their functions in those processes. To address these issues, we characterized the deletion mutant of a class III chitin synthase-encoding gene of Aspergillus nidulans, chsB, and investigated ChsB localization in the hyphae and conidiophores. Multilayered cell walls and intrahyphal hyphae were observed in the hyphae of the chsB deletion mutant, and wavy septa were also occasionally observed. ChsB tagged with FLAG or enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) localized mainly at the tips of germ tubes, hyphal tips, and forming septa during hyphal growth. EGFP-ChsB predominantly localized at polarized growth sites and between vesicles and metulae, between metulae and phialides, and between phalides and conidia in asexual development. These results strongly suggest that ChsB functions in the formation of normal cell walls of hyphae, as well as in conidiophore and conidia development in A. nidulans.
Previous studies have indicated that physical exercise plays a preventive role in synaptic plasticity deficits in the hippocampus of sleep-deprived male rats. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effects of treadmill running on early long term potentiation (E-LTP) at the Cornu Ammonis (CA1) area of the hippocampus in sleep-deprived female rats. Intact and ovariectomiezed (OVX) female Wistar rats were used in the present study. The exercise protocol was four weeks treadmill running and the multiple platform method was applied to induce 72 h sleep deprivation (SD). We examine the effect of exercise and/or SD on synaptic plasticity using in vivo extracellular recording in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. The field excitatory post-synaptic potential (fEPSP) slope was measured before and 2h after high frequency stimulation (HFS) in the experimental groups. Field potential recording indicated that the induction and maintenance phase of E-LTP impaired in the sleep deprived animals compared to the other groups. After 72 h SD, E-LTP impairments were prevented by 4 weeks of regular treadmill exercise. In conclusion, the synaptic plasticity deficit in sleep-deprived female rats was improved by regular physical exercise. Further studies are suggested to evaluate the possible underlying mechanisms.
Precursors and preinvasive lesions of the breast include atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH), ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), and lobular neoplasia (LN). There is a significant debate regarding the classification, diagnosis, prognosis and management of these lesions. This review article describes the current theories regarding the pathogenesis and molecular evolution of these lesions. It reviews the implication of a variety of molecules in the continuum of breast lesions: estrogen receptors (ER-alpha and ER-beta), c-erb-B2 (Her2/neu), p53, Ki-67, bcl-2, E-cadherin, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), p27 (Kip1), p16 (INK4a), p21 (Waf1), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). With respect to the aforementioned molecules, this article reviews their pathophysiological importance, and puts the stress on whether they confer additional risk for invasive breast cancer or not. This knowledge has the potential to be of importance in the therapeutic decisions presenting in the common clinical practice.
BACKGROUND: Overcoming the notorious apoptotic resistance of melanoma cells remains a therapeutic challenge given dismal survival of patients with metastatic melanoma. However, recent clinical trials using a BRAF inhibitor revealed encouraging results for patients with advanced BRAF mutant bearing melanoma, but drug resistance accompanied by recovery of phospho-ERK (pERK) activity present challenges for this approach. While ERK1 and ERK2 are similar in amino acid composition and are frequently not distinguished in clinical reports, the possibility they regulate distinct biological functions in melanoma is largely unexplored. METHODS: Rather than indirectly inhibiting pERK by targeting upstream kinases such as BRAF or MEK, we directly (and near completely) reduced ERK1 and ERK2 using short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) to achieve sustained inhibition of pERK1 and/or pERK2. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Using A375 melanoma cells containing activating BRAFV600E mutation, silencing ERK1 or ERK2 revealed some differences in their biological roles, but also shared roles by reduced cell proliferation, colony formation in soft agar and induced apoptosis. By contrast, chemical mediated inhibition of mutant BRAF (PLX4032) or MEK (PD0325901) triggered less killing of melanoma cells, although they did inhibit proliferation. Death of melanoma cells by silencing ERK1 and/or ERK2 was caspase dependent and accompanied by increased levels of Bak, Bad and Bim, with reduction in p-Bad and detection of activated Bax levels and loss of mitochondrial membrane permeability. Rare treatment resistant clones accompanied silencing of either ERK1 and/or ERK2. Unexpectedly, directly targeting ERK levels also led to reduction in upstream levels of BRAF, CRAF and pMEK, thereby reinforcing the importance of silencing ERK as regards killing and bypassing drug resistance. CONCLUSIONS: Selectively knocking down ERK1 and/or ERK2 killed A375 melanoma cells and also increased the ability of PLX4032 to kill A375 cells. Thus, a new therapeutic window is open for future clinical trials in which agents targeting ERK1 and ERK2 should be considered in patients with melanoma.
INTRODUCTION: In recent years, there has been an increase in specialist palliative care services in the home. Despite this, there have been relatively few published evaluations of such care. METHODS: This is a qualitative study which used semistructured interviews to explore bereaved carers' views and experiences of a hospice at home (HAH) service in the East Midlands, UK. Eleven interviews were conducted and analysis followed the framework approach. RESULTS: Carers' views were divided into four themes: caring for someone at home; formal care provided by HAH; access to out-of-hours care; and provision of specialist equipment. CONCLUSIONS: Bereaved carers generally gave very positive accounts on care delivered by the HAH service. Shortcomings identified were the provision of out-of-hours care and the untimely supply and removal of specialist equipment. It is suggested that bereaved carers provide useful insights for qualitative evaluations of end-of-life services delivered in the home.
This paper describes the design and development of a software tool for the evaluation and training of surgical residents using an interactive, immersive, virtual environment. Our objective was to develop a tool to evaluate user spatial reasoning skills and knowledge in a neuroanatomical context, as well as to augment their performance through interactivity. In the visualization, manually segmented anatomical surface images of MRI scans of the brain were rendered using a stereo display to improve depth cues. A magnetically tracked wand was used as a 3D input device for localization tasks within the brain. The movement of the wand was made to correspond to movement of a spherical cursor within the rendered scene, providing a reference for localization. Users can be tested on their ability to localize structures within the 3D scene, and their ability to place anatomical features at the appropriate locations within the rendering.
We performed linear dichroism measurements in compressed polyacrylamide gels on the complex between the helix-destabilizing protein of bacteriophage T4, GP32 and poly(1,N6-ethenoadenylic acid), which is used as a model system for single-stranded DNA. A strong hyperchromism for poly(1,N6-ethenoadenylic acid) in the complex indicates a strongly altered conformation. The positive linear dichroism in the wavelength region where the bases absorb must be explained by a strong tilting of the bases in the complex. This finding is in accordance with results from earlier studies, using electric birefringence and circular dichroism measurements. Our measurements show that the angle between the bases and the local helix axis is 42(+/- 6)degrees. In addition, a pronounced contribution from the tryptophan residues of GP32 can be recognized, indicating that several of these residues have a specific orientation in the complex. The sign of the dichroism due to the tryptophan residues is the same as that due to the DNA bases. However, it is not sufficient to assume that all the observed dichroism is due to one or more intercalated tryptophan residues and there must be one or more additional tryptophan residues that make an angle of less than 40 degrees with the local helix axis. Some possible structures of the DNA-protein complex are discussed.
Azo dyes are widely used in textile, printing, cosmetic, drug and food-processing industries. They are also used extensively in laboratories as either biological stains or pH indicators. The extent of such use is related to the degree of industrialization. Since intestinal cancer is more common in highly industrialized countries, a possible connection may exist between the increase in the number of cancer cases and the use of azo dyes. Azo dyes can be reduced to aromatic amines by the intestinal microflora. The mutagenicity of a number of azo dyes is reviewed in this paper. They include Trypan Blue, Ponceau 3R, Pinceau 2R, Methyl Red, Methyl Yellow, Methyl Orange, Lithol Red, Orange I, Orange II, 4-Phenylazo-Naphthylamine, Sudan I, Sudan IV, Acid Alizarin Violet N, Fast Garnet GBC, Allura Red, Ponceau SX, Sunset Yellow, Tartrazine, Citrus Red No. 2, Orange B, Yellow AB, Carmoisine, Mercury Orange, Ponceau S, Versatint Blue, Phenylazophenol, Evan's Blue and their degraded aromatic amines. The significance of azo reduction in the mutagenesis and carcinogenesis of azo dyes is discussed.
Sumoylation, an important posttranslational modification process, is involved in regulating bioactivities of diverse proteins. GATA4, a cardiac-enriched dual zinc finger transcription factor, plays a critical role in regulating cardiac-specified genes. Here, we demonstrated that GATA4 is sumoylated by small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 (SUMO-1), which resulted in enhanced GATA4 transcriptional activity. We further revealed that lysine 366 of GATA4 constituted a major sumyolation site. Conversion of lysine 366 to arginine 366 resulted in reduced GATA4 nuclear occupation, suggesting that SUMO modification may also modulate GATA4 nuclear localization. In GATA4 sumoylation, PIAS1 served as an E3 ligase and positively modulated GATA4 transactivation via its RING finger domain. In the presence of SUMO-1 and/or PIAS1, GATA4 triggered the activation of cardiogenic genes in pluripotent 10T1/2 fibroblast. GATA4 was identified as a SUMO-1-targeted transcription factor and together with PIAS1 was shown to be a potent regulator of cardiac gene activity.
By the two hybrid screening of mouse brain cDNA library, we identified Hppi, a cell death-promoting protein, as a binding partner of postsynaptic scaffold protein Homer1c. Hippi interacted specifically with Homer1c but not with its homologue Homer2. It was reported that Hippi, when complexed with Hip1, induces the apoptosis in striatal neurons and may cause Huntington's disease. We found that this apoptotic effect of Hippi was specific to the striatum and was not observed in hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, the apoptotic effect of Hippi was prevented when Homer1c was co-expressed in cultured striatal neurons. The protective effect of Homer1c was diminished when Hippi binding domain was deleted. These results suggest that Homer1c may play an important role in the mechanisms of neuronal death in the striatum.
The bcl-2 proto-oncogene encodes a Mr 25,000 protein that has been shown to prevent apoptosis or programmed cell death. The bcl-2 protein is detectable in basal cells of normal colonic epithelium, and an altered topographic distribution of this protein is found in colonic neoplasms. However, the clinical significance of abnormal bcl-2 expression in colon carcinomas remains unknown. We examined the prognostic value of the bcl-2 protein in TNM stage II colon carcinomas and its relationship to DNA ploidy, cell proliferation indices, p53 expression, and clinicopathological features. We analyzed 119 resected and otherwise untreated, paraffin-embedded stage II colon carcinomas for bcl-2 and p53 protein expression using immunohistochemistry. DNA ploidy and proliferative index (% S-phase + % G2-M) were determined by flow cytometry, and tumor grade and vascular microinvasion were assessed on histological sections. Cytoplasmic expression of the bcl-2 protein was detected in 72 (66%) of 110 carcinomas, and a high level of expression was significantly correlated with diploid DNA content (P = 0.02) and low proliferative activity (P = 0.005). bcl-2 was not associated with nuclear p53 expression. In a univariate analysis, a higher fraction of bcl-2-positive tumor cells was associated with better relapse-free survival (P = 0.02) and overall survival (P = 0.05) rates. Moreover, a high level of bcl-2 expression was an independent predictor of better relapse-free survival (P = 0.04), but not overall survival (P = 0.14), after adjustment for other variables, including proliferative index, DNA ploidy, and race. In conclusion, bcl-2 overexpression is associated with favorable prognostic features and may predict clinical outcome in stage II colon carcinomas.
Individuals with Down's syndrome (DS) develop neuropathological features similar to Alzheimer's disease (AD) early in life, including dementia, accumulation of beta-amyloid, and irregular phosphorylation of tau proteins. Ts65Dn mice, an animal model of DS, provide a unique method to investigate the mechanisms related to AD-like symptoms in DS and possible therapeutic interventions. Ts65Dn mice undergo a decline in cholinergic phenotype and cognitive deterioration beginning at 6-8 months of age. In middle-aged female Ts65Dn mice, estrogen supplementation alleviated these cholinergic and cognitive impairments. The current study investigated AD-like markers and the effects of estrogen in male Ts65Dn mice. Estrogen treatment prior to behavioral testing did not improve cognitive deficits in 6-month-old male Ts65Dn mice, but decreased total and phosphorylated (pS199) tau in the entorhinal cortex compared to normosomic animals. Hippocampal beta-amyloid(1-42) levels were increased in Ts65Dn animals, regardless of estrogen treatment. These findings further support Ts65Dn mice as a model for specific AD-like symptoms, and demonstrate that estrogen treatment of this type does not improve the cognitive ability of male Ts65Dn mice.
HISTORY AND CLINICAL FINDINGS: A 54-year old man had suffered from advanced multiple myeloma for two years. After initially good response the myeloma was refractrory to treatment with dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, bortezomibe, zoledronate and additionally doxorubicine. The patient then complained of dyspnea without clinical signs of cardiopulmonary disease. INVESTIGATIONS: Arterial blood gas analysis showed hyperventilation with respiratory alkalosis and normal alveolo-arterial gradient as the reason for the dyspnea. With a normal MRI of the brain and lumbal puncture, a neurological disease could be excluded. Serum calcium, creatinine and serum viscosity were normal. Eventually, serum ammonia levels were found to be substantially elevated (144 micromol/l) and hyperammonemic encephalopathy was diagnosed. TREATMENT AND COURSE: Therapy with bortezomib and high dose dexamethason was repeated, and the patient also received bendamustin. Despite this treatment, he lost consciousness and died after two weeks because of aspiration pneumonia. CONCLUSION: The existence of respiratory alkalosis and multiple myeloma should prompt a search for hyperammonemia.
A novel circulating tumor-associated autoantibody, K94, obtained from a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) mouse model was characterized. The target antigen of K94 autoantibody was expressed in various tumor cell lines including liver cancer, and its secretion was detectable using MCF-7 breast carcinoma cells. Proteomic analysis revealed that the protein bands reactive to K94 included cytokeratin (CK) 8 and 18, which are known to be related to tumorigenesis and form a heterotypic complex with each other. However, K94 showed no activity toward CK8 or CK18 separately. The epitope of the K94 antibody was only presented by a complex between CK8 and CK18, which was confirmed by analysis using recombinant CK8 and CK18 proteins. To formulate an assay for anti-CK8/18 complex autoantibody, a mimotope peptide reactive to K94 was selected from loop-constrained heptapeptide (-CX7C-) display phage library, of which sequence was CISPDAHSC (K94p1). A mimotope enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using phage-displayed K94p1 peptide as a coating antigen was able to discriminate breast cancer (n=30) patients from normal subjects (n=30) with a sensitivity of 50% and a specificity of 82.61%. CA15.3 was detected at very low levels in the same breast cancer subjects and did not discriminate breast cancer patients from normal subjects, although it is a conventional biomarker of breast cancer. These results suggest that a mimotope ELISA composed of K94p1 peptide may be useful for the diagnosis of breast cancer.
Putative nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity was assayed in molluscan CNS through histochemical localization of NADPH-diaphorase and through measurement of L-arginine/L-citrulline conversion. Several hundreds of NADPH-dependent diaphorase-positive neurons stained consistently darkly in the nervous system of the predatory opisthobranch Pleurobranchaea californica, whereas stained neurons were relatively sparse and/or light in the other opisthobranchs (Philine, Aplysia, Tritonia, Flabellina, Cadina, Armina, Coriphella, and Doriopsilla sp.) and cephalopods (Sepia and Rossia sp.). L-Arginine/L-citrulline conversion was beta-NADPH dependent, insensitive to removal of Ca2+, inhibited by the calmodulin blocker trifluoperazine, and inhibited by the competitive NOS inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) but not D-NAME. Inhibitors of arginase [L-valine and (+)-S-2-amino-5-iodoacetamidopentanoic acid)] did not affect L-citrulline production in the CNS. NOS activity was largely associated with the particulate fraction and appeared to be a novel, constitutive Ca(2+)-independent isoform. Enzymatic conversion of L-arginine/L-citrulline in Pleurobranchaea and Aplysia CNS was 4.0 and 9.8%, respectively, of that of rat cerebellum, L-Citrulline formation in gill and muscle of Pleurobranchaea was not significant. The localization of relatively high NOS activity in neuron somata in the CNS of Pleurobranchaea is markedly different from the other opisthobranchs, all of which are grazers. Potentially, this is related to the animal's opportunistic predatory lifestyle.
This study introduces a flexible and compound targeted approach to Deplete and Enrich Select Ingredients to Generate Normalized Extract Resources, generating DESIGNER extracts, by means of chemical subtraction or augmentation of metabolites. Targeting metabolites based on their liquid-liquid partition coefficients (K values), K targeting uses countercurrent separation methodology to remove single or multiple compounds from a chemically complex mixture, according to the following equation: DESIGNER extract = total extract +/- target compound(s). Expanding the scope of the recently reported depletion of extracts by immunoaffinity or solid phase liquid chromatography, the present approach allows a more flexible, single- or multi-targeted removal of constituents from complex extracts such as botanicals. Chemical subtraction enables both chemical and biological characterization, including detection of synergism/antagonism by both the subtracted targets and the remaining metabolite mixture, as well as definition of the residual complexity of all fractions. The feasibility of the DESIGNER concept is shown by K-targeted subtraction of four bioactive prenylated phenols, isoxanthohumol (1), 8-prenylnaringenin (2), 6-prenylnaringenin (3), and xanthohumol (4), from a standardized hops (Humulus lupulus L.) extract using specific solvent systems. Conversely, adding K-targeted isolates allows enrichment of the original extract and hence provides an augmented DESIGNER material. Multiple countercurrent separation steps were used to purify each of the four compounds, and four DESIGNER extracts with varying depletions were prepared. The DESIGNER approach innovates the characterization of chemically complex extracts through integration of enabling technologies such as countercurrent separation, K-by-bioactivity, the residual complexity concepts, as well as quantitative analysis by (1)H NMR, LC-MS, and HiFSA-based NMR fingerprinting.
Molecular phylogenetic analyses of aligned 18S rDNA gene sequences from articulate and inarticulate brachiopods representing all major extant lineages, an enhanced set of phoronids and several unrelated protostome taxa, confirm previous indications that in such data, brachiopod and phoronids form a well-supported clade that (on previous evidence) is unambiguously affiliated with protostomes rather than deuterostomes. Within the brachiopod-phoronid clade, an association between phoronids and inarticulate brachiopods is moderately well supported, whilst a close relationship between phoronids and craniid inarticulates is weakly indicated. Brachiopod-phoronid monophyly is reconciled with the most recent Linnaean classification of brachiopods by abolition of the phylum Phoronida and rediagnosis of the phylum Brachiopoda to include tubiculous, shell-less forms. Recognition that brachiopods and phoronids are close genealogical allies of protostome phyla such as molluscs and annelids, but are much more distantly related to deuterostome phyla such as echinoderms and chordates, implies either (or both) that the morphology and ontogeny of blastopore, mesoderm and coelom formation have been widely misreported or misinterpreted, or that these characters have been subject to extensive homoplasy. This inference, if true, undermines virtually all morphology-based reconstructions of phylogeny made during the past century or more.
Thiazide diuretics are associated with an increased risk of hypokalemia. However, pharmacogenetic markers of thiazide-induced changes in serum potassium are not well studied. The aim of this study was to investigate possible predictors of serum potassium changes after thiazide treatment. Nondiabetic hypertensive patients with a systolic blood pressure of 140 or a diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg were enrolled in our study. After 2 weeks of lifestyle modification and diet instruction, patients with persistently elevated blood pressure were given 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide every morning for 2 weeks. Twenty single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were selected from two candidate genes, SLC12A3 and WNK1. Serum potassium levels were checked before and after hydrochlorothiazide treatment. A total of 75 patients eventually qualified for enrollment in our study. They received 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide every morning for 2 weeks. Six SNPs in WNK1 (rs11064524, rs4980973, rs12581940, rs880054, rs953361, and rs10849582) were correlated with decreases in serum potassium. None of the SLC12A3 polymorphisms were correlated with decreases in serum potassium. After Bonferroni's correction, only rs4980973 was correlated with decreases in serum potassium (corrected P=0.014). Multivariate stepwise linear regression analysis revealed that the changes in serum potassium levels were independently associated with the baseline potassium level (beta=-0.587, 95% confidence interval=-0.875--0.299, P=0.0001) and WNK1 rs4980973 (A/A and A/G vs. G/G, beta=-0.418, 95% confidence interval=-0.598--0.237, P=0.00002). In conclusion, the baseline potassium level and the WNK1 rs4980973 polymorphism were independent predictors of decreases in serum potassium after short-term hydrochlorothiazide treatment in nondiabetic hypertensive patients.
Previously, we demonstrated that cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) from MHC: B19B19 and MHC: B21B21 chickens inoculated with a non-oncogenic Marek's disease virus (MDV) vaccine strain, SB-1/12 can lyse syngeneic reticuloendotheliosis virus (REV)-transformed cell lines expressing MDV pp38 or gB genes. In this study, we report the characterization of MDV gB-specific CTLs in chickens immunized with recombinant fowlpox virus expressing MDV gB gene (rFPV-gB). Spleen cells from rFPV-gB inoculated chickens (MHC: B19B19), depleted for CD4+, CD8+, TCR gamma delta+, TCR alpha beta 1+ or TCR alpha beta 2+ cells were used as effector cells in chromium release assays. Effector cells depleted of CD8+ or TCR alpha beta 1+, but not CD4+, TCR gamma delta+ or TCR alpha beta 2+ markedly reduced the percentage of specific release (%SR). Compared to the %SR caused by the SB-1/12-sensitized CTLs, the %SR caused by rFPV-gB-sensitized CTLs was low, but statistically significant. This is a first report on the induction of MDV gB-specific CD8+ CTLs in chickens immunized with rFPV-gB vaccine.
APC is a key 'gatekeeper' gene in colorectal tumorigenesis. The high frequency of APC defects observed in colorectal cancer tissue is the result of selective growth advantage of cells with loss-of-function mutations at that locus. However, mutations may also arise due to inherent sequence instability. Defective DNA mismatch repair (MMR) and base excision repair (BER) also contribute to colorectal carcinogenesis and may compound such instability. To avoid the effect of clonal selective advantage imparted by APC mutation in cancer cells, we assessed in vitro APC mutation frequency in cell lines of lymphoid lineage to investigate the influence of defective MMR and BER. In DNA repair proficient cells, we observed substantially greater inherent sequence instability in APC gene coding sequences compared to reference sequences. Surprisingly, however, this difference was abrogated in MMR defective lines. We also found greater mutation frequency at exonic DNA sequences outwith the APC region in cells defective for either MMR or BER defects. The underlying propensity for mutation at the APC gene is intriguing, while the greater frequency of mutation in cells defective for DNA repair has relevance to understanding events leading to colorectal cancer and other malignancies.
Asymmetric division of adult stem cells generates one self-renewing stem cell and one differentiating cell, thereby maintaining tissue homeostasis. A decline in stem cell function has been proposed to contribute to tissue ageing, although the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. Here we show that changes in the stem cell orientation with respect to the niche during ageing contribute to the decline in spermatogenesis in the male germ line of Drosophila. Throughout the cell cycle, centrosomes in germline stem cells (GSCs) are oriented within their niche and this ensures asymmetric division. We found that GSCs containing misoriented centrosomes accumulate with age and that these GSCs are arrested or delayed in the cell cycle. The cell cycle arrest is transient, and GSCs appear to re-enter the cell cycle on correction of centrosome orientation. On the basis of these findings, we propose that cell cycle arrest associated with centrosome misorientation functions as a mechanism to ensure asymmetric stem cell division, and that the inability of stem cells to maintain correct orientation during ageing contributes to the decline in spermatogenesis. We also show that some of the misoriented GSCs probably originate from dedifferentiation of spermatogonia.
INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in governing lineage specification and differentiation in multiple organs; however, little is known about their specific roles in mammopoiesis. We have determined the global miRNA expression profiles of functionally distinct epithelial subpopulations in mouse and human mammary tissue, and compared these to their cognate transcriptomes and epigenomes. Finally, the human miRNA signatures were used to interrogate the different subtypes of breast cancer, with a view to determining miRNA networks deregulated during oncogenesis. METHODS: RNA from sorted mouse and human mammary cell subpopulations was subjected to miRNA expression analysis using the TaqMan MicroRNA Array. Differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs were correlated with gene expression and histone methylation profiles. Analysis of miRNA signatures of the intrinsic subtypes of breast cancer in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database versus those of normal human epithelial subpopulations was performed. RESULTS: Unique miRNA signatures characterized each subset (mammary stem cell (MaSC)/basal, luminal progenitor, mature luminal, stromal), with a high degree of conservation across species. Comparison of miRNA and transcriptome profiles for the epithelial subtypes revealed an inverse relationship and pinpointed key developmental genes. Interestingly, expression of the primate-specific miRNA cluster (19q13.4) was found to be restricted to the MaSC/basal subset. Comparative analysis of miRNA signatures with H3 lysine modification maps of the different epithelial subsets revealed a tight correlation between active or repressive marks for the top DE miRNAs, including derepression of miRNAs in Ezh2-deficient cellular subsets. Interrogation of TCGA-identified miRNA profiles with the miRNA signatures of different human subsets revealed specific relationships. CONCLUSIONS: The derivation of global miRNA expression profiles for the different mammary subpopulations provides a comprehensive resource for understanding the interplay between miRNA networks and target gene expression. These data have highlighted lineage-specific miRNAs and potential miRNA-mRNA networks, some of which are disrupted in neoplasia. Furthermore, our findings suggest that key developmental miRNAs are regulated by global changes in histone modification, thus linking the mammary epigenome with genome-wide changes in the expression of genes and miRNAs. Comparative miRNA signature analyses between normal breast epithelial cells and breast tumors confirmed an important linkage between luminal progenitor cells and basal-like tumors.
Blinding diseases of the retina are frequently characterized by loss of photoreceptor cells. The retinal degeneration 10 (rd10) mouse expresses a mutant form of rod phosphodiesterase leading to autosomal recessive photoreceptor degeneration. In contrast to rd1, rd10 mice have remaining rod function mimicking more closely most forms of human Retinitis Pigmentosa. Here we use morphology, biochemistry, retinal whole mounts, real-time PCR, Western blotting and immunofluorescence to compile a comprehensive report on progression of retinal degeneration in the rd10 retina up to one year of age. We show that retinal development, morphology, gene expression pattern and retinal vasculature was normal until postnatal day 15. Thereafter, a bi-phasic pattern of rod cell death emerged with a first rapid phase peaking around 3 weeks of age followed by a slower second phase. Death of cone cells followed with a delay and vessel dropout was prominent in the retinal periphery of 6 months old rd10 mice. At one year of age, RPE atrophy was evident. The degenerating retina rapidly induced expression of transcriptional regulators Atf3 and Cebpd. Induction of Atf3 was transient and lasted only for several days at the beginning of degeneration whereas levels of Cebpd remained elevated throughout the period of photoreceptor loss. Several protective genes such as Lif, Edn2 and Fgf2 which are implicated in a potent endogenous survival pathway, and Mt1 and Mt2 were strongly upregulated in the rd10 retina. In addition, increased expression of Casp1 and Il1b suggested an inflammatory response.
Under European Union (EU) law, population-based cohort studies have the right to collect environmental data and to access geospatial data, at street level, on the web, from a host of public sources. As to geospatial information, they should be able to avail themselves of Member States' networks of services for geospatial data sets and services (discovery, viewing, downloading) via the Internet. On the other hand, linkage of health data of biobank participants to environmental data, using geospatial data, is limited, as it must satisfy the provisions of the EU Directive on the Protection of Personal Data, pursuant to which geospatial data regarding biobank participants are likely to qualify as personal data. Hence, we submit that the consents of biobank participants be reviewed to assess whether they cover the generation and linkage of geospatial data. We also submit that biobanks must have measures in place to prevent the re-identification of participants by use of their geospatial data. We present a model Geographic-Information-Systems (GIS) Toolkit, as an example of what measures could be taken to that effect.
The ability of loperamide to influence intestinal fluid transport was assessed using a dual loop preparation. Loperamide was applied to the lumen of the oral, but not the aboral loop, yet basal and prostaglandin-stimulated fluid transport was affected in both, indicating that the drug can act systemically in addition to any local actions. Loperamide had both pro-absorptive and anti-absorptive effects, the latter only occurring when basal fluid absorption was high. The effects of loperamide were greater in the aboral loop to which it was available only via the systemic route. This difference may reflect the absence of counteracting local influences in the aboral loop or a variation in the sensitivity of different regions of the gut to loperamide.
The interactions between adherent cells and their extracellular matrix (ECM) have been shown to play an important role in many biological processes, such as wound healing, morphogenesis, differentiation, and cell migration. Cells attach to the ECM at focal adhesion sites and transmit contractile forces to the substrate via cytoskeletal actin stress fibers. This contraction results in traction stresses within the substrate/ECM. Traction force microscopy (TFM) is an experimental technique used to quantify the contractile forces generated by adherent cells. In TFM, cells are seeded on a flexible substrate and displacements of the substrate caused by cell contraction are tracked and converted to a traction stress field. The magnitude of these traction stresses are normally used as a surrogate measure of internal cell contractile force or contractility. We hypothesize that in addition to contractile force, other biomechanical properties including cell stiffness, adhesion energy density, and cell morphology may affect the traction stresses measured by TFM. In this study, we developed finite element models of the 2D and 3D TFM techniques to investigate how changes in several biomechanical properties alter the traction stresses measured by TFM. We independently varied cell stiffness, cell-ECM adhesion energy density, cell aspect ratio, and contractility and performed a sensitivity analysis to determine which parameters significantly contribute to the measured maximum traction stress and net contractile moment. Results suggest that changes in cell stiffness and adhesion energy density can significantly alter measured tractions, independent of contractility. Based on a sensitivity analysis, we developed a correction factor to account for changes in cell stiffness and adhesion and successfully applied this correction factor algorithm to experimental TFM measurements in invasive and noninvasive cancer cells. Therefore, application of these types of corrections to TFM measurements can yield more accurate estimates of cell contractility.
gamma-Tubulin is critical for microtubule (MT) assembly and organization. In metazoa, this protein acts in multiprotein complexes called gamma-Tubulin Ring Complexes (gamma-TuRCs). While the subunits that constitute gamma-Tubulin Small Complexes (gamma-TuSCs), the core of the MT nucleation machinery, are essential, mutation of gamma-TuRC-specific proteins in Drosophila causes sterility and morphological abnormalities via hitherto unidentified mechanisms. Here, we demonstrate a role of gamma-TuRCs in controlling spindle orientation independent of MT nucleation activity, both in cultured cells and in vivo, and examine a potential function for gamma-TuRCs on astral MTs. gamma-TuRCs locate along the length of astral MTs, and depletion of gamma-TuRC-specific proteins increases MT dynamics and causes the plus-end tracking protein EB1 to redistribute along MTs. Moreover, suppression of MT dynamics through drug treatment or EB1 down-regulation rescues spindle orientation defects induced by gamma-TuRC depletion. Therefore, we propose a role for gamma-TuRCs in regulating spindle positioning by controlling the stability of astral MTs.
Improving the dysfunction of endothelial progenitor cell (EPCs) in patients with diabetes mellitus is important for preventing vascular complication. Vaspin, an adipocytokine, has the anti-atherogenic properties rely on its positive effect on nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. We hypothesis that vaspin may ameliorate high glucose induced dysfunction of EPCs. In rat bone marrow derived EPCs, glucose treatment results in a decrease in the proliferation and migration capacity in a dose dependent manner. These detrimental effects can be alleviated by vaspin. Furthermore, vaspin increased the production of NO and the effect of vaspin on EPCs can be diminished partly by the eNOS inhibitor (L-NAME). We assessed total eNOS protein expression and Ser(1177)-phospho-eNOS expression and found that vaspin not only induced eNOS protein expression but also up regulate the eNOS activation. Subsequently, we investigated protein kinase B (Akt) activation in the presence and absence of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) inhibitor (LY-2940002). Vaspin increased total Akt and Ser(473)-phospho-Akt expression and these effects can be blocked by LY-2940002. The results of our study indicate a novel effect of vaspin to regulate eNOS expression and function in EPCs via a PI3K/Akt/eNOS pathway; vaspin may have a protective effect in patients with diabetes to prevent the occurrence of vascular complication.
The aim of this work was to determine the composition of the hydro-distilled essential oil of Salvia judaica Boiss. and S. multicaulis Vahl. (Lamiaceae) from Jordan by GC and GC-MS and to report the actual composition of their fresh leaves and flowers using SPME (Solid Phase Micro-Extraction).Their dual alpha-amylase/alpha glucosidase and pancreatic lipase inhibitory activities as well as their anti-proliferative potential were screened. The aroma profile of the leaves, flowers, and flowers at pre-flowering stages of S. judaica, obtained through SPME was composed of sesquiterpene hydrocarbons (87.7 %, 71.8 %, and 86.2 %, respectively) while the hydro-distilled oil of the dry leaves was rich in oxygenated sesquiterpenes (50.8%). Fresh leaves of S. multicaulis were rich in oxygenated monoterpenes (58.1%), while monoterpene hydrocarbons dominated the blooming flowers (57.2%) and the flowers at the pre-flowering stage (64.7%). The hydro-distilled oil of the dry leaves was rich in oxygenated monoterpenes (77.6%). With doxorubicin as a positive control, no anti-proliferative activity was observed against colorectal cancer cell lines HT29, HCT116, and SW620 using SRB assay for either Salvia spp. In vitro enzymatic starch digestion was evaluated with Acarbose (IC50: 0.2 +/- 0.0 microg /mL) as the reference drug. The respective IC50 (mg/mL) values of S. judaica and S. multicaulis aqueous extracts were 4.9 +/- 0.4 and 10.3 +/- 0.9. Modulation of pancreatic lipase activity (PL) was determined by colorimetry and compared with Orlistat (IC50 : 0.11 +/- 0.0 microg/mL). PL-IC50 values (microg/mL) obtained for S. judaica and S. multicaulis were 108.5+/-6.4 and 31.8 +/- 0.8, respectively.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of obesity on pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) outcomes. METHODOLOGY: Subjects were 97 patients undergoing PD at our institution between April 2005 and April 2011. All patients had data including body mass index (BMI). Patients were divided into two groups based on BMI; normal group (BMI <25kg/m2) and overweight group (BMI >25kg/m'). Perioperative outcomes were collected prospectively. RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the two groups in terms of intraoperative data, surgical time, blood loss and blood transfusion rates. The over-all complication rate was 50.0% (53.6% in the over- weight group and 47.1% in the normal group; p=0.55).The most common complication overall was pancreatic fistula (34.7%). There was also a significant difference in the rate of intra-abdominal fluid collection (four patients in the overweight group (14.3%) vs. two patients in the normal group (2.9%), respectively; p<0.05).There was no significant difference in the mortality rate between the normal group and the overweight group(3.6% vs. 0%, p=0.11). CONCLUSIONS: Management of overweight patients in the perioperative period should therefore address any modifiable risk factors for operative complications.
Currently detoxification of drug and alcohol dependent patients is pharmacologically unresolved, and long-term treatment following the acute phase is also not very successful including a high number of relapses. We would need medications that on the short term cease: the severe vegetative symptoms, the pain, the extremely distressing psychosyndrome characterised by restlessness, anxiety or acute depressive symptoms, and the craving. The optimal would be if there was one medication capable of simultaneously alleviating or diminishing all the above symptoms without causing dependency and preventing relapse in the long-term. Dependency is almost all cases accompanied by primary and/or secondary mood disorder or sleep disorder which should also be treated. It should be considered, however, that following withdrawal of the agent benzodiazepine dependency often develops. The serotonin antagonist and reuptake inhibitor (SARI) trazodone is effective in the treatment of depression accompanied by sleeping disorder and it has also shown efficacy in alcohol and benzodiazepine-dependency. Its administration may improve the efficacy of detoxification and treatment of following conditions, may decrease medication load and the risk of the development of benzodiazepine dependency. In our clinical practice we frequently use this agent to treat our patients simultaneously suffering from depression and addiction problems, gaining experience comparing it to other pharmacotherapies (benzodiazepines or other antidepressants). The medication is not approved for alcohol and drug dependence, however, treatment t of comorbid conditions is not against to the official recommendations. Our aim was, in addition to reviewing the literature, to share our experience which, although cannot be considered an evidence based study, we deemed worthy of publishing. We cannot, at this point, put forward a protocol addressing all related scientific problems and problems of off-label treatment, and we could not so far treat enough patients with trazodone so that our results would be statistically proven. "Acute" and long term treatment of dependency is not sufficiently effective with a substantial relapse rate, which is in part related to the lack of specific medication also for long term treatment. Among the available psychopharmacons, trazodone is a possible choice, since, as based on patients' reports and clinical observations, improvement of their depressive conditions and sleep problems potentially decreases the risk of relapse of drug and alcohol dependence.
Diagnostic virus isolation is still frequently used, particularly from respiratory tract secretions. Testing positive virus cultures for all possible viruses is time-consuming, and unexpected or unknown viruses may escape detection. Therefore, a novel random PCR approach was developed that allows sequence-independent amplification of viral nucleic acids from virus isolation-positive cultures. Selectivity for viral sequences is obtained by preferential isolation of nucleic acids that are particle associated and resistant to nucleases. Using primers with a degenerated 3' end, the isolated nucleic acids are amplified and the randomly amplified PCR products are cloned and sequenced. As proof of the concept, the PAN-PCR approach was applied to supernatants of coxsackievirus B3 and murine adenovirus type 1-infected cells. Enterovirus and adenovirus sequences were obtained, demonstrating that the random PCR approach allows detection of RNA and DNA viruses. As a first application of this PAN-PCR approach, we characterized a virus isolate from mouth-washing material of a patient with chronic fatigue syndrome and high antibody titers to coxsackievirus B2. The virus isolate had tested negative for enteroviruses and respiratory viruses (influenza viruses A and B, parainfluenza virus types 1 to 3, respiratory syncytial virus, and adenovirus) by immunofluorescence and PCR. Particle-associated, nuclease-resistant RNA and DNA were prepared from the supernatant of infected cells. The DNA and the reverse-transcribed RNA were randomly amplified, and PCR products were cloned and sequenced. Of 25 sequences obtained from the DNA preparation, 24 contained herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) sequences from 14 different loci spread over the HSV-1 genome. This result was confirmed by using a standard diagnostic HSV-PCR, demonstrating that the PAN-PCR correctly identified the virus isolate. Although the identification of HSV-1 in mouth-washing material is not surprising in retrospect, it clearly demonstrates the applicability of the PAN-PCR approach. This method should be particularly useful for characterizing virus isolates that have tested negative for all expected viruses and for identifying unknown viruses.
There have been a number of cases of foodborne illness among humans that are caused by pathogens such as Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella typhimurium, etc. The current practices to detect such pathogenic agents are cell culturing, immunoassays, or polymerase chain reactions (PCRs). These methods are essentially laboratory-based methods that are not at all real-time and thus unavailable for early-monitoring of such pathogens. They are also very difficult to implement in the field. Lab-on-a-chip biosensors, however, have a strong potential to be used in the field since they can be miniaturized and automated; they are also potentially fast and very sensitive. These lab-on-a-chip biosensors can detect pathogens in farms, packaging/processing facilities, delivery/distribution systems, and at the consumer level. There are still several issues to be resolved before applying these lab-on-a-chip sensors to field applications, including the pre-treatment of a sample, proper storage of reagents, full integration into a battery-powered system, and demonstration of very high sensitivity, which are addressed in this review article. Several different types of lab-on-a-chip biosensors, including immunoassay- and PCR-based, have been developed and tested for detecting foodborne pathogens. Their assay performance, including detection limit and assay time, are also summarized. Finally, the use of optical fibers or optical waveguide is discussed as a means to improve the portability and sensitivity of lab-on-a-chip pathogen sensors.
Lysinibacillus sp. RGS degrades sulfonated azo dye Reactive Orange 16 (RO16) efficiently. Superoxide dismutase and catalase activity were tested to study the response of Lysinibacillus sp. RGS to the oxidative stress generated by RO16. The results demonstrated that oxidative stress enzymes not only protect the cell from oxidative stress but also has a probable role in decolorization along with an involvement of oxidoreductive enzymes. Formation of three different metabolites after degradation of RO16 has been confirmed by GC-MS analysis. FTIR analysis verified the degradation of functional groups of RO16, and HPTLC confirmed the removal of auxochrome group from the RO16 after degradation. Toxicity studies confirmed the genotoxic, cytotoxic, and phytotoxic nature of RO16 and the formation of less toxic products after the treatment of Lysinibacillus sp. RGS. Therefore, Lysinibacillus sp. RGS has a better perspective of bioremediation for textile wastewater treatment.
Although some types of bipolar electrodes have been broadly employed in clinical practice to coagulate biological tissue by means of radiofrequency (RF) currents, there is still scanty available information about their electrical-thermal behaviour. We are focused on internally cooled bipolar electrodes. The goal of our study was to know more about the behavior of this kind of electrodes. For that, we planned an experimental and theoretical model. The experimental study was based on bovine hepatic ex vivo tissue and the theoretical model was based on the Finite Element Method (FEM). In order to check the feasibility of the theoretical model, we assessed both theoretically and experimentally the effect of the internal cooling characteristics of the bipolar electrode (flow rate and coolant temperature) on the impedance progress during RF heating and coagulation zone dimensions. The experimental and theoretical results were in good agreement, which suggests that the theoretical model could be useful to improve the design of cooled bipolar electrodes.
Pulmonary infection caused by the opportunistic organisms Penicillium marneffei and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia in patients with Job's syndrome is rare and not well documented. The case of a 30-year-old man with Job's syndrome who developed recurrent pneumonia and lung abscesses caused by P. marneffei and S. maltophilia, complicated by massive hemoptysis, is described. Bronchial artery embolization was successful in controlling the hemoptysis; however, the infection proved fatal despite appropriate antimicrobial therapy. A brief review of the literature on Job's syndrome and its associated infective pulmonary manifestations is also presented.
We have introduced the glucoamylase gene (GAM1) from Schwanniomyces occidentalis into the genome of the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha to study the potential of this organism as a host for high-level expression of a heterologous gene encoding a secretory protein. Transformants of H. polymorpha containing GAM1 under control of the formate dehydrogenase (FMD) promoter are stable and efficiently secrete an active glucoamylase that is faithfully processed and modified. Yields of up to 1.4g/l of active enzyme were obtained at cell densities of 100-130 grams dry weight per liter.
Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is an important pathogen with worldwide economic consequences. Consequently, an important goal is the development of a vaccine that can provide rapid protection while overcoming the potential risk associated with the production of conventional inactivated vaccines. An important secondary feature of the vaccine would be the ability to distinguish vaccinated from infected animals. A recombinant fowlpox virus (vUTAL3CP1) containing FMDV capsid polypeptide and 3C coding regions of O/NY00 was constructed and evaluated for its ability to induce humoral and cellular responses in mice and guinea pigs. In addition, the ability to protect guinea pigs against homologous virus challenge was examined. Mice and guinea pigs were given booster vaccinations twice and once, respectively, and guinea pigs were challenged 20 days after the booster vaccination. Control groups included animals inoculated with commercial vaccine, fowlpox virus or phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). All animals vaccinated with vUTAL3CP1 developed specific anti-FMDV antibody and neutralizing antibody, as well as T lymphocyte proliferation response and CTL cytotoxic activity. Three of four guinea pigs vaccinated with vUTAL3CP1 were completely protected from viral challenge. The results demonstrated the potential of a fowlpox virus-based recombinant FMD vaccine.
Reactive immunoblastic proliferations can histologically mimic classical Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL), and show diffuse CD30 expression in large cells. The lack of expression of CD15 in a subset of CHL further complicates their separation from immunoblastic proliferations. Loss of expression of B-cell transcription factors is frequently exploited in making a diagnosis of CHL; however, the staining patterns of B-cell transcription factors in immunoblastic proliferations have not been extensively studied. Thirty-three cases of reactive immunoblastic proliferations were evaluated using a panel of immunohistochemistry for CD30, CD15, CD20, CD3, kappa, lambda, CD45RB, MUM1, PAX5, OCT2, and BOB.1, as well as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)/EBV-encoded ribonucleic acid in situ hybridization. A newly developed dual-color chromogenic in situ hybridization technology for detection of kappa/lambda mRNAs was also used. The majority of immunoblasts expressed CD30 in 14 of 33 (42%) cases; none expressed CD15. Loss or weak expression of at least 1 transcription factor in B immunoblasts, most commonly PAX5, was noted in 24 of 29 (83%) cases. A polytypic light chain expression pattern was detected by immunohistochemistry in 14 of 22 (63.6%) cases and by dual-color chromogenic in situ hybridization in 9 of 10 (90%) cases studied. EBV-encoded ribonucleic acid was detected in 8 of 33 (24.2%) cases, 5 of which were clinically unrelated to infectious mononucleosis. We conclude that B-cell transcription factors can show loss or weak expression in a significant proportion of reactive immunoblastic proliferations, and, therefore, staining for B-cell transcription factors together with CD30 should be interpreted with caution before a diagnosis of CHL is made.
The influence of host growth temperature, phase and media, together with the effect of infection temperature on bacteriophage PhiS1 infection of Pseudomonas fluorescens were examined. The rates of cell lysis and phage release were determined and showed that the efficacy of phage infection was optimal with host cells grown and infected at 26 degrees C. The host physiological state also affected these rates. Infection was dependent on the presence of cell wall proteins with molecular weights of 17.5+/-1 and 99+/-5 kDa.
Located on chromosome 10q22-q23, the human neuregulin3 (NRG3) is considered to be a strong positional and functional candidate gene for schizophrenia pathogenesis. Several case-control studies examining the association of polymorphisms in NRG3 with schizophrenia and/or related traits such as delusion have been reported recently in cohorts of Han Chinese, Ashkenazi Jews, Australians and white Americans of Western European ancestry. Thus, this study aimed to comprehensively investigate the association of NRG3 genetic variations with the risk of schizophrenia and smooth pursuit eye movement (SPEM) abnormality in a Korean population. Using TaqMan assay, six single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the intronic region of NRG3 were genotyped and two major haplotypes were identified in 435 patients with schizophrenia as cases and 393 unrelated healthy individuals as controls. A total of 113 schizophrenia patients underwent an eye tracking task, and degree of SPEM abnormality was measured using the logarithmic values of the signal/noise (Ln S/N) ratio. Differences in frequency distributions were analyzed using logistic and regression models following various modes of genetic inheritance and controlling for age and sex as covariates. Subsequent analysis revealed that the frequency distributions of NRG3 polymorphisms and haplotypes were similar between schizophrenia patients and healthy controls of Korean ethnicity. Furthermore, no significant differences were observed between the genetic variants tested for SPEM abnormality. By elucidating a lack of association in a Korean population, findings from this study may contribute to the understanding of the genetic etiology focusing on the role of NRG3 in schizophrenia pathogenesis.
Common Variable Immunodeficiency Disorders (CVIDs) are the most prevalent cause of primary antibody failure. CVIDs are highly variable and a genetic causes have been identified in <5% of patients. Here, we performed whole genome sequencing (WGS) of 34 CVID patients (94% sporadic) and combined them with transcriptomic profiling (RNA-sequencing of B cells) from three patients and three healthy controls. We identified variants in CVID disease genes TNFRSF13B, TNFRSF13C, LRBA and NLRP12 and enrichment of variants in known and novel disease pathways. The pathways identified include B-cell receptor signalling, non-homologous end-joining, regulation of apoptosis, T cell regulation and ICOS signalling. Our data confirm the polygenic nature of CVID and suggest individual-specific aetiologies in many cases. Together our data show that WGS in combination with RNA-sequencing allows for a better understanding of CVIDs and the identification of novel disease associated pathways.
INTRODUCTION: Segawa disease (SD), an autosomal dominant dopa-responsive dystonia with marked diurnal fluctuation, can be clinically classified into the postural dystonia type (SD-P) and action dystonia type (SD-A). Compared to SD-A, SD-P has an earlier onset and is characterized by postural dystonia. In SD-A, along with postural dystonia, dystonic movements appear in late childhood. To evaluate the differences between these two types of SD, we studied the gating of SEPs, which is useful to investigate sensory-motor integration and might be one of the methods to detect the thalamo-cortical involvement. METHODS: Fourteen patients with SD (11-63 years) and 18 age-matched normal subjects (11-51 years) were studied. Among the 14 patients with SD, 8 patients had SD-P and 6 had SD-A. Using median nerve stimulation at the wrist, the amplitude of the frontal N30 (FrN30) was compared between pre-movement and rest conditions. RESULTS: We found that the amplitude of the contralateral FrN30 was attenuated before movement in normal controls and in the majority of both SD types. On the other hand, the pre-movement-rest amplitude ratio in patients with SD-A was significantly larger than in patients with SD-P (P=0.0025). No significant differences were observed in the pre-movement-rest ratio between SD-P and normal subjects. CONCLUSION: The preservation or impairment of pre-movement gating shown here suggests a physiological difference between the two types of SD. More specifically, sensorimotor integration of the basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuits may be intact in SD-P, but are affected in SD-A. We discuss the different pathophysiology seen in the different phenotype of SD based on the different developmental involvement in the basal ganglia.
The anti-inflammatory properties associated with intravenous immunoglobulin therapy require the sialic acid modification of the N-glycan of the Fc domain of IgG. Sialylation of the Fc fragment is mediated by beta-galactoside alpha2,6-sialyltransferase 1 (ST6Gal-1), acting on the Gal(beta4)GlcNAc terminal structure of the biantennary N-glycans on the Fc domain. However, little is known regarding the in vivo regulation of Fc sialylation and its role in the progression of inflammatory processes. Here, we report that decreased Fc sialylation of circulatory IgG accompanies the acute phase response elicited by turpentine exposure or upon acute exposure to either nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae or ovalbumin. However, Fc sialylation was increased 3-fold from the base line upon transition to chronic inflammation by repeated exposure to challenge. The P1 promoter of the ST6Gal-1 gene is critical for Fc sialylation, but P1 does not drive ST6Gal-1 expression in B cells. The Siat1DeltaP1 mouse, with a dysfunctional P1 promoter, was unable to produce sialylated Fc in the systemic circulation, despite the presence of Gal(beta4)GlcNAc termini on the Fc glycans. The major contribution of P1 action is to synthesize ST6Gal-1 enzymes that are deposited into the systemic circulation. The data strongly indicate that this pool of extracellular ST6Gal-1 in the blood impacts the sialylation of IgG Fc and that defective Fc sialylation is likely a major contributing mechanism for the proinflammatory tendencies previously noted in Siat1DeltaP1 animals.
The ever-expanding role of extended-spectrum-beta-lactamase (ESBL)-harboring and carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae in causing serious infections poses a grave public health threat because these organisms also tend to be multidrug resistant, for which very few (if any) antibiotic options remain available. Rapid detection of such panresistant organisms offers one of the best solutions to improve patient screening and hospital infection control practices as well as curb inappropriate antibiotic use. This review discusses and compares primarily the current state-of-the-art culture-based and molecular methods that are commercially available for detection or screening of ESBL-harboring and carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae.
We used a classical rodent model of transformation to understand the transcriptional processes, and hence the molecular and cellular events a given cell undergoes when progressing from a normal to a transformed phenotype. Src activation is evident in 80% of human colon cancer, yet the myriad of cellular processes effected at the level of gene expression has yet to be fully documented. We identified a Src 'transformation fingerprint' within the gene expression profiles of Src-transformed rat 3Y1 fibroblasts demonstrating a progression in transformation characteristics. To evaluate the role of this gene set in human cancer development and progression, we extracted the orthologous genes present on the Affymetrix Hu95A GeneChip (12k named genes) and compared expression profiles between the Src-induced rodent cell line model of transformation and staged colon tumors where Src is known to be activated. A similar gene expression pattern between the cell line model and staged colon tumors for components of the cell cycle, cytoskeletal associated proteins, transcription factors and lysosomal proteins suggests the need for co-regulation of several cellular processes in the progression of cancer. Genes not previously implicated in tumorigenesis were detected, as well as a set of 14 novel, highly conserved genes with here-to-fore unknown function. These studies define a set of transformation associated genes whose up-regulation has implications for understanding Src mediated transformation and strengthens the role of Src in the development and progression of human colon cancer. Supportive Supplemental Data can be viewed at http://pga.tigr.org/PGApubs.shtml.
OBJECTIVE: This study examined the effects of thiamine and thiamine pyrophosphate on oxidative damage developing in association with hepatic injury caused by alcohol toxicity in rats and on hepatic injury markers. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four groups of rats were used; control, a group receiving thiamine+ethanol, a group receiving thiamine pyrophosphate+ethanol and a healthy group. The experimental protocol was repeated over 30 days. Malondialdehyde, glutathione and DNA damage product levels in liver tissue were measured at the end of the study. Alanine amino transferase and aspartate amino transferase, markers of liver damage, levels were determined. The results were then compared among the groups. RESULTS: A statistically significant difference between antioxidant markers and markers of liver damage was determined between the group given thiamine pyrophosphate ethanol and the group given ethanol alone (p < 0.01) No statistically significant difference was observed between the group given thiamine and ethanol and the group given ethanol alone (p > 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that thiamine pyrophosphate may have a protective effect against liver damage caused by alcohol toxicity.
Totally 70 Escherichia coli (E. coli) isolated strains from patients in Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical College affiliated Chung Ho Memorial Hospital and the Navy General Hospital of the Republic of China, all in Kaohsiung, were collected during the period of July 1986-August 1987 and examined for their susceptibility to several antimicrobial agents as well as for their plasmid contents. The isolates tested showed a high level of resistance to ampicillin (Ap) (90.4%), piperacillin (Pip) (89.0%), tetracycline (Tc) (88.7%), streptomycin (Sm) (87.7%), chloramphenicol (Cm) (78.4%), kanamycin (Km) (72.6%) and sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim (Sxt) (54.2%). Observations of the resistance patterns revealed that the dominant type was Ap-Tc-Cm-Sm-Pip-Km. The results of plasmid curing and transfer experiments indicated that three plasmids with molecular weights 49.2-51.6 Mdal, 69.8-178 Mdal and a third one with molecular weight larger than 178 Mdal carried resistance determinants for Gm-Nn, Sm-Km-Tc and Tc-Cm-Km, respectively.
BACKGROUND: Hepatic ischemia and reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major complication in liver surgery, and hepatic steatosis is a primary factor aggravating cellular injury during IRI. Both pro-inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species (ROS) are key mediators of hepatic IRI. Ischemic preconditioning (IpreC), remote ischemia preconditioning (RIPC) and ischemic postconditioning (IpostC) have offered protections on hepatic IRI, but all these methods have their own shortcomings. Grape seed proanthocyanidins (GSP) has a broad spectrum of pharmacological properties against oxidative stress. Thus, GSP has potential protective effects against hepatic IRI. METHODS: C57BL/6 mice suffering 30mins hepatic ischemia process were sacrificed after 1h reperfusion to build murine warm hepatic IRI model. The mice were injected GSP intraperitoneally 10, 20, 40mg/kg/day for 3 weeks as pharmacological preconditioning. Obese mice fed with high-fat diet for 24 weeks before used. Three pathways related to IRI, including ROS elimination, pro-inflammatory cytokines release and hypoxia responses were examined. RESULTS: Our data show that GSP could significantly reduce hepatic IRI by protecting hepatocyte function and increasing the activity of ROS scavengers, as well as decreasing cytokines levels. At the same time, GSP also enhance the hypoxia tolerance response. Combined GSP and postconditioning can provided synergistic protection. In the obese mice suffering hepatic IRI group, GSP was more effective than postconditioning on protecting liver against IRI, and the combined strategy was obviously superior to the solo treatment. CONCLUSION: GSP could protect liver against IRI: particularly in high-fat diet induced obese mice. GSP used as pharmacological preconditioning and combined with other protocols have huge potential to be used in clinical.
The author describes a paradox: on the one hand, remarkable strides have been made in biomedical research that have created unparalleled opportunities for progress in the understanding, prevention, and treatment of human diseases; yet on the other hand, too few people are being adequately trained to actualize the promise of these advances. Concerns that have been raised in the past concerning the training of physician-scientists are reviewed and general statements are made about their current availability. The status and health of M.D.-Ph.D. programs are discussed, because many think this kind of program is an important mechanism for training the biomedical researchers of the future. New initiatives under way to encourage careers in research are considered and recommendations are made for the future support of research training and encouragement of the exceptional young people who are entering the research pipeline.
Hepatic lipase is an enzyme which hydrolyzes triglycerides from plasma lipoproteins and thus takes part in the metabolism of intermediate density lipoproteins and high-density lipoproteins. The search described here concentrated on mutations of the HL gene in 129 patients with combined hypertriglyceridemia/hyperalphalipoproteinemia and in 184 members of 19 families with familial combined hyperlipidemia. Controls were 100 subjects with favorable lipid values (age 46-51 years). Mutation screening and analysis were performed by temperature-gradient gel electrophoresis, allele-specific restriction genotyping, and sequencing. Six different missense mutations and four different silent mutations were found in the HL gene. The alleles Phe-267 and Gln-343 were detected only once in the patient group with hypertriglyceridemia and hyperalphalipoproteinemia and were not detected in the control group. The allele Met-383 was rare in both patients and controls. We found 9.3% of the patients and only 3.0% of controls to be carrying the Val-73-Met missense mutation. The allele Phe-334 was found in 5.43% of patients and in 2.0% of controls. The difference between the frequencies of these alleles was significant between male patients and male controls (Met-73 P=0.044; Phe-334 P=0.047). Also, the summarized odds ratio of 3.28 (95% confidence interval 1.23-8.73) demonstrates that mutation carriers are significantly more prevalent in the patients. Fifteen carriers of the Met-73 allele were found in six families of the familial combined hyperlipidemia group. Furthermore, six carriers of the Phe-334 allele were found in three families of the same group. In comparison to the controls the summarized odds ratio of 2.45 (95% confidence interval 0.89-6.71) barely missed the level of significance. The linkage between genotype and phenotype was incomplete. These results show an association of the missense mutations Val-73-Met and Leu-334-Phe as susceptibility alleles for combined forms of hyperlipidemia.
BACKGROUND: While pharmacologic stress single photon emission computed tomography myocardial perfusion imaging (SPECT-MPI) is used for noninvasive evaluation of patients who are unable to perform treadmill exercise, its impact on net reclassification improvement (NRI) of prognosis is unknown. METHODS: We evaluated the prognostic value of pharmacologic stress MPI for prediction of cardiovascular death or non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) within 1 year at a single-center, university-based laboratory. We examined continuous and categorical NRI of pharmacologic SPECT-MPI for prediction of outcomes beyond clinical factors alone. RESULTS: Six thousand two hundred forty patients (median age 66 years [IQR 56-74], 3466 men) were studied and followed for 5963 person-years. SPECT-MPI variables associated with increased risk of cardiovascular death or non-fatal MI included summed stress score, stress ST-shift, and post-stress resting left ventricular ejection fraction </=50%. Compared to a clinical model which included age, sex, cardiovascular disease, risk factors, and medications, model chi(2) (210.5 vs. 281.9, P < .001) and c-statistic (0.74 vs. 0.78, P < .001) were significantly increased by addition of SPECT-MPI predictors (summed stress score, stress ST-shift and stress resting left ventricular ejection fraction). SPECT-MPI predictors increased continuous NRI by 49.4% (P < .001), reclassifying 66.5% of patients as lower risk and 32.8% as higher risk of cardiovascular death or non-fatal MI. Addition of MPI predictors to clinical factors using risk categories, defined as <1%, 1% to 3%, and >3% annualized risk of cardiovascular death or non-fatal MI, yielded a 15.0% improvement in NRI (95% CI 7.6%-27.6%, P < .001). CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacologic stress MPI substantially improved net reclassification of cardiovascular death or MI risk beyond that afforded by clinical factors.
For the past 50 years, the Ramachandran map has been used effectively to study the protein structure and folding. However, though extensive analysis has been done on dihedral angle preferences of residues in globular proteins, related studies and reports of membrane proteins are limited. It is of interest to explore the conformational preferences of residues in transmembrane regions of membrane proteins which are involved in several important and diverse biological processes. Hence, in the present work, a systematic comparative computational analysis has been made on dihedral angle preferences of alanine and glycine in alpha and beta transmembrane regions (the two major classes of transmembrane proteins) with the aid of the Ramachandran map. Further, the conformational preferences of residues in transmembrane regions were compared with the non-transmembrane regions. We have extracted cation-pi interacting residues present in transmembrane regions and explored the dihedral angle preferences. From our observations, we reveal the higher percentage of occurrences of glycine in alpha and beta transmembrane regions than other hydrophobic residues. Further, we noted a clear shift in psi-angle preferences of glycine residues from negative bins in alpha transmembrane regions to positive bins in beta transmembrane regions. Also, cation-pi interacting residues in beta transmembrane regions avoid preferring psi-angles in the range of -59 degrees to -30 degrees . In this article, we insist that the studies on preferences of dihedral angles in transmembrane regions, thorough understanding of structure and folding of transmembrane proteins, can lead to modeling of novel transmembrane regions towards designing membrane proteins.
BACKGROUND: Elevated serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D) concentrations have been reported among cohorts of recurrent calcium (Ca) kidney stone-formers and implicated in the pathogenesis of hypercalciuria. Variations in Ca and vitamin D metabolism, and excretion of urinary solutes among first-time male and female Ca stone-formers in the community, however, have not been defined. METHODS: In a 4-year community-based study we measured serum Ca, phosphorus (P), 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D), 1,25(OH)2D, 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (24,25(OH)2D), parathyroid hormone (PTH), and fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23) concentrations in first-time Ca stone-formers and age- and gender frequency-matched controls. RESULTS: Serum Ca and 1,25(OH)2D were increased in Ca stone-formers compared to controls (P = 0.01 and P = 0.001). Stone-formers had a lower serum 24,25(OH)2D/25(OH)D ratio compared to controls (P = 0.008). Serum PTH and FGF-23 concentrations were similar in the groups. Urine Ca excretion was similar in the two groups (P = 0.82). In controls, positive associations between serum 25(OH)D and 24,25(OH)2D, FGF-23 and fractional phosphate excretion, and negative associations between serum Ca and PTH, and FGF-23 and 1,25(OH)2D were observed. In SF associations between FGF-23 and fractional phosphate excretion, and FGF-23 and 1,25(OH)2D, were not observed. 1,25(OH)2D concentrations associated more weakly with FGF-23 in SF compared with C (P <0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative differences in serum Ca and 1,25(OH)2D and reductions in 24-hydroxylation of vitamin D metabolites are present in first-time SF and might contribute to first-time stone risk.
BACKGROUND: Compare the efficacy and safety of Plasma-Lyte A (PLA) versus 0.9 % sodium chloride (NaCl) intravenous (IV) fluid replacement in children with moderate to severe dehydration secondary to acute gastroenteritis (AGE). METHODS: Prospective, randomized, double-blind study conducted at eight pediatric emergency departments (EDs) in the US and Canada (NCT#01234883). The primary outcome measure was serum bicarbonate level at 4 h. Secondary outcomes included safety and tolerability. The hypothesis was that PLA would be superior to 0.9 % NaCl in improvement of 4-h bicarbonate. Patients (n = 100) aged >/=6 months to <11 years with AGE-induced moderate-to-severe dehydration were enrolled. Patients with a baseline bicarbonate level </=22 mEq/L formed the modified intent to treat (mITT) group. RESULTS: At baseline, the treatment groups were comparable except that the PLA group was older. At hour 4, the PLA group had greater increases in serum bicarbonate from baseline than did the 0.9 % NaCl group (mean +/- SD at 4 h: 18 +/- 3.74 vs 18.0 +/- 3.67; change from baseline of 1.6 and 0.0, respectively; P = .004). Both treatment groups received similar fluid volumes. The PLA group had less abdominal pain and better dehydration scores at hour 2 (both P = .03) but not at hour 4 (P = 0.15 and 0.08, respectively). No patient experienced clinically relevant worsening of laboratory findings or physical examination, and hospital admission rates were similar. One patient in each treatment group developed hyponatremia. Four patients developed hyperkalemia (PLA:1, 0.9 % NaCl:3). CONCLUSION: In comparison with 0.9 % NaCl, PLA for rehydration in children with AGE was well tolerated and led to more rapid improvement in serum bicarbonate and dehydration score. TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT#01234883 (Registration Date: November 3, 2010).
OBJECTIVES: Emdogain, containing an extract of fetal porcine enamel matrix proteins, is a potent stimulator of in vitro osteoclastogenesis. The underlying molecular mechanisms are, however, unclear. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Here, we have addressed the role of transforming growth factor-beta receptor type 1 (TGF-betaRI) kinase activity on osteoclastogenesis in murine bone marrow cultures. RESULTS: Inhibition of TGF-betaRI kinase activity with SB431542 abolished the effect of Emdogain on osteoclastogenesis induced by receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand or tumor necrosis factor-alpha. SB431542 also suppressed the Emdogain-mediated increase of OSCAR, a co-stimulatory protein, and dendritic cell-specific transmembrane protein and Atp6v0d2, the latter two being involved in cell fusion. Similar to transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta), Emdogain could not compensate for the inhibition of IL-4 and IFNgamma on osteoclast formation. When using the murine macrophage cell line RAW246.7, SB431542 and the smad-3 inhibitor SIS3 blocked Emdogain-stimulated expression of the transcription factor NFATc1. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the data suggest that TGF-betaRI kinase activity is necessary to mediate in vitro effects of Emdogain on osteoclastogenesis. CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Based on these in vitro data, we can speculate that at least part of the clinical effects of Emdogain on osteoclastogenesis is mediated via TGF-beta signaling.
MOTIVATION: During the last few years, several new small regulatory RNAs (sRNAs) have been discovered in bacteria. Most of them act as post-transcriptional regulators by base pairing to a target mRNA, causing translational repression or activation, or mRNA degradation. Numerous sRNAs have already been identified, but the number of experimentally verified targets is considerably lower. Consequently, computational target prediction is in great demand. Many existing target prediction programs neglect the accessibility of target sites and the existence of a seed, while other approaches are either specialized to certain types of RNAs or too slow for genome-wide searches. RESULTS: We introduce INTARNA, a new general and fast approach to the prediction of RNA-RNA interactions incorporating accessibility of target sites as well as the existence of a user-definable seed. We successfully applied INTARNA to the prediction of bacterial sRNA targets and determined the exact locations of the interactions with a higher accuracy than competing programs. AVAILABILITY: http://www.bioinf.uni-freiburg.de/Software/
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is an endogenous gaseous molecule formed from L-cysteine in vascular tissue. In the present study, cardiovascular responses to the H2S donors Na2S and NaHS were investigated in the anesthetized rat. The intravenous injections of Na2S and NaHS 0.03-0.5 mg/kg produced dose-related decreases in systemic arterial pressure and heart rate, and at higher doses decreases in cardiac output, pulmonary arterial pressure, and systemic vascular resistance. H2S infusion studies show that decreases in systemic arterial pressure, heart rate, cardiac output, and systemic vascular resistance are well-maintained, and responses to Na2S are reversible. Decreases in heart rate were not blocked by atropine, suggesting that the bradycardia was independent of parasympathetic activation and was mediated by an effect on the sinus node. The decreases in systemic arterial pressure were not attenuated by hexamethonium, glybenclamide, N(w)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride, sodium meclofenamate, ODQ, miconazole, 5-hydroxydecanoate, or tetraethylammonium, suggesting that ATP-sensitive potassium channels, nitric oxide, arachidonic acid metabolites, cyclic GMP, p450 epoxygenase metabolites, or large conductance calcium-activated potassium channels are not involved in mediating hypotensive responses to the H2S donors in the rat and that responses are not centrally mediated. The present data indicate that decreases in systemic arterial pressure in response to the H2S donors can be mediated by decreases in vascular resistance and cardiac output and that the donors have an effect on the sinus node independent of the parasympathetic system. The present data indicate that the mechanism of the peripherally mediated hypotensive response to the H2S donors is uncertain in the intact rat.
Cellular reprogramming of somatic cells to patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) enables in-vitro modeling of human cardiac disorders for pathogenic and therapeutic investigations. However, using iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) to model an adult-onset heart disease remains challenging because of the uncertainty regarding the ability of relatively immature iPSC-CMs to fully recapitulate adult disease phenotypes. Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (ARVD) is an inherited cardiomyopathy characterized by pathological fibrofatty infiltration and cardiomyocyte (CM) loss predominantly in the right ventricle (RV), leading to heart failure and lethal arrhythmias. Over 50% of affected individuals have desmosome gene mutations, most commonly inPKP2encoding plakophilin-2. Using Yamanaka's pluripotent factors, we generated iPSC lines from ARVD patients withPKP2mutations. We first developed a method to induce metabolic maturation of iPSC-CMs and showed that induction of adult-like metabolic energetics from an embryonic/glycolytic state is essential to model an adult-onset cardiac disease using patient-specific iPSCs. Furthermore, we showed that coactivation of normal peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha and abnormal PPARgamma pathways in ARVD iPSC-CMs resulted in exaggerated CM lipogenesis, CM apoptosis, Na(+)channel downregulation and defective intracellular calcium handling, recapitulating the pathological signatures of ARVD. Using this model, we revealed novel pathogenic insights that metabolic derangement in an adult-like metabolic milieu underlies ARVD pathologies, enabling us to propose novel disease-modifying therapeutic strategies.
OBJECTIVE: To identify nursing research priorities in Spain as suggested by nurses and service users. METHOD: A Modified Delphi technique was used. The first round started off with a 24-item document for which consensus had been previously achieved. Experts participating in this modified (two rounds) Delphi technique were: nursing managers (community and hospital care settings), nursing school directors, scientific nursing association representatives, nursing researchers attending the National Nursing Research Conference, and service users. RESULTS: Main priorities identified for nursing research were: 1) evaluating the effectiveness of nursing interventions, 2) identifying strategies for health promotion empowering service users, 3) developing evidence-based care through implementing and evaluating results, and 4) evaluating the quality of nursing care. CONCLUSIONS: Results may help research managers and administrators identify and develop nursing research promotion strategies as well as more strongly sustained funding policies and decisions.
Human plasma contains a cell-adhesive protein that has a structure related to immunoglobulins. This protein was purified by affinity chromatography on an elastin-Sepharose column and by Mono Q anion-exchange chromatography. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under non-reducing and reducing conditions revealed that this protein is a kind of immunoglobulin M (IgM). Antibodies against the mu chain and against the Fc region of IgM inhibited the adhesion of cells to this protein. Addition of the peptide GRGDS into media inhibited the adhesion, too. These results suggest that this protein is a special subset of IgM having a cell-binding sequence in the Fc region. We propose the name "cell-adhesive immunoglobulin M (CA-IgM)" for this protein. CA-IgM binds to alpha-elastin and laminin suggesting that it may play a role in the interaction between cells and the extracellular matrix.
The assembly of ribosomal subunits in eukaryotes is a complex, multistep process so far mostly studied in yeast. In S. cerevisiae, more than 200 factors including ribosomal proteins and trans-acting factors are required for the ordered assembly of 40S and 60S ribosomal subunits. To date, only few human homologs of these yeast ribosome synthesis factors have been characterized. Here, we used a systematic RNA interference (RNAi) approach to analyze the contribution of 464 candidate factors to ribosomal subunit biogenesis in human cells. The screen was based on visual readouts, using inducible, fluorescent ribosomal proteins as reporters. By performing computer-based image analysis utilizing supervised machine-learning techniques, we obtained evidence for a functional link of 153 human proteins to ribosome synthesis. Our data show that core features of ribosome assembly are conserved from yeast to human, but differences exist for instance with respect to 60S subunit export. Unexpectedly, our RNAi screen uncovered a requirement for the export receptor Exportin 5 (Exp5) in nuclear export of 60S subunits in human cells. We show that Exp5, like the known 60S exportin Crm1, binds to pre-60S particles in a RanGTP-dependent manner. Interference with either Exp5 or Crm1 function blocks 60S export in both human cells and frog oocytes, whereas 40S export is compromised only upon inhibition of Crm1. Thus, 60S subunit export is dependent on at least two RanGTP-binding exportins in vertebrate cells.
Estrogens stimulate proliferation and differentiation of uterine epithelial cells in vivo. Mitogenic action of estrogens may be mediated by growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). This study was designed to determine whether IGF-I and insulin affect proliferation of uterine epithelial cells obtained from 3- to 4-week-old immature female mice in a serum-free culture system. The epithelial cell number on Day 5 in culture was significantly increased by adding IGF-I (10 and 100 ng/ml) or insulin (100 and 1000 ng/ml) to the culture media, indicating that IGF-I is more effective than insulin in inducing the epithelial growth. The epithelial DNA synthesis was significantly stimulated by IGF-I (1 and 10 ng/ml), suggesting that both the epithelial proliferation and their detachment from substratum are stimulated by 1 ng/ml of IGF-I, but that the former is more accelerated than the latter by 10 ng/ml of IGF-I. These results demonstrate that both IGF-I and insulin directly stimulate the growth of uterine epithelial cells, and suggest that insulin may act via IGF-I receptors. IGF-I immunoreactivity was detected in the cytoplasm of the cultured cells, indicating that the cells synthesize IGF-I. Estradiol-17 beta (E2) at lower concentrations (0.001-0.1 nM) tended to increase the number of epithelial cells, while E2 at higher concentrations (1 to 100 nM) did not affect it. It is highly probable that IGF-I produced in endometrial cells induces their proliferation by an autocrine or paracrine mechanism.
1,3-Butadiene (BD), a compound used extensively in the rubber industry, is a potent carcinogen in mice and a weak carcinogen in rats in chronic carcinogenicity bioassays. While many chemicals are known to alter their own metabolism after repeated exposures, the effect of exposure prior to BD on its in vivo metabolism has not been reported. The purpose of the present research was to examine the effect of repeated exposure to BD on tissue concentrations of two mutagenic BD metabolites, butadiene monoepoxide (BDO) and butadiene diepoxide (BDO2). Concentrations of BD epoxides were compared in several tissues of rats and mice following a single exposure or ten repeated exposures to a target concentration of 62.5 ppm BD. Female Sprague-Dawley rats and female B6C3F1 mice were exposed to BD for 6 h or 6 h x 10 days. BDO and BDO2 were quantified in blood and several other tissues following preparation by cryogenic vacuum distillation and analysis by multidimensional gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Blood and lung BDO concentrations did not differ significantly (P < or = 0.05) between the two exposure regimens in either species. Following multiple exposures to BD, BDO levels were 5- and 1.6-fold higher (P < or = 0.05) in mammary tissue and 2- and 1.4-fold higher in fat tissue of rats and mice, respectively, as compared with single exposures. BDO2 levels also increased in rat fat tissue following multiple exposures to BD. However, in mice, levels of this metabolite decreased by 15% in fat, by 28% in mammary tissue and by 34% in lung tissue following repeated exposures to BD. The finding that the mutagenic epoxide BDO, which is the precursor to the highly mutagenic BDO2, accumulates in rodent fat may be important in assessing the potential risk to humans from inhalation of BD.
Streptococcus pyogenes (group A Streptococcus, GAS) and Moraxella catarrhalis are important colonizers and (opportunistic) pathogens of the human respiratory tract. However, current knowledge regarding colonization and pathogenic potential of these two pathogens is based on work involving single bacterial species, even though the interplay between respiratory bacterial species is increasingly important in niche occupation and the development of disease. Therefore, to further define and understand polymicrobial species interactions, we investigated whether gene expression (and hence virulence potential) of GAS would be affected upon co-culture with M. catarrhalis. For co-culture experiments, GAS and M. catarrhalis were cultured in Todd-Hewitt broth supplemented with 0.2% yeast extract (THY) at 37 degrees C with 5% CO2 aeration. Each strain was grown in triplicate so that triplicate experiments could be performed. Bacterial RNA was isolated, cDNA synthesized, and microarray transcriptome expression analysis performed. We observed significantly increased (>/=4-fold) expression for genes playing a role in GAS virulence such as hyaluronan synthase (hasA), streptococcal mitogenic exotoxin Z (smeZ) and IgG endopeptidase (ideS). In contrast, significantly decreased (>/=4-fold) expression was observed in genes involved in energy metabolism and in 12 conserved GAS two-component regulatory systems. This study provides the first evidence that M. catarrhalis increases GAS virulence gene expression during co-culture, and again shows the importance of polymicrobial infections in directing bacterial virulence.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the risk of congenital cytomegalovirus infection and disease following primary maternal infection around the time of conception compared with the risk during later stages of pregnancy. DESIGN: Cohort study between 1990 and 2003. SETTING: Germany. PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and sixty-six pregnant women with serologically confirmed primary cytomegalovirus infection and known outcome. METHODS: Timing of primary cytomegalovirus infection by analysing the kinetics of cytomegalovirus-specific IgG and IgM antibodies, the IgG avidity index and neutralising antibodies. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Onset of maternal primary infection in relation to congenital infection and disease. RESULTS: Preconceptional (between eight and two weeks before onset of the last menstrual period) was determined in three women and did not lead to congenital infection. Periconceptional infection (between one week before and five weeks after last menstrual period) occurred in 20 women with congenital infection in nine cases (45%). Timing was less precise (between eight weeks before and five weeks after last menstrual period) in an additional 10 women, three cases of which resulted in congenital infection. Of the 12 pregnancies in which congenital infection occurred, seven were terminated, six before the 12th week of gestation (WG 12) and one at WG 19 due to fetal hyperechogenic bowel. One of the five infected live-born infants delivered to a mother with periconceptional infection showed dystrophy and mild microcephaly at birth, but had a rather normal development at two years of age. Primary infections occurring between WG 6-20 and WG 20-38 resulted in transmission rates of 30% (27/89) and 58% (18/31), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Counselling of women with periconceptional primary cytomegalovirus infection should be adjusted to offer prenatal diagnosis and high-level ultrasound controls due to the considerable risk for fetal infection and uncertainty of clinical outcome and disease.
Soft tissue accumulated concentrations of nine metals (V, As, Se, Ag, Cd, Pb, Mn, Cu and Zn) were studied in two main phenotypes (1) according to external shell colour (white and pink), and (2) according to shell shape (shell with a rounded posterior end--"regular" and with an elongate posterior end and a notable flexure--"irregular") of the Baltic clam Macoma balthica from southern Baltic Sea off Poland. No differences in metal concentrations were observed between colour-based phenotypes. By contrast, "irregular" clams exhibited generally higher concentrations of all elements in their tissues than "regular" bivalves. This finding provides the first reference on a potential linkage of shell deformation with tissue metal concentrations within one entire population of clams living in the same habitat. Different ability of metal handling in the shape-based phenotypes is presumably related to different physiological capacity of the bivalves induced by the selection effect of specific environmental conditions. It is suggested that unfavourable conditions in deep waters of the Gulf of Gdansk (e.g. hypoxia/anoxia, hydrogen sulphide, elevated bioavailability of metals) induces, in a certain part of the population, morphological deformation of shell (thereby leading to irregular shape) and in parallel physiological adaptations which result in greater sensitivity to trace metals of "irregular" clams. This hypothesis however, requires further investigation with special focus on genetic divergences between phenotypes because till now we cannot exclude the co-occurrence of two types (semi-species) of clams in the Gulf: an Atlantic type and a Baltic type. Genetic analysis with a use of DALP technique revealed strong intrapopulational polymorphism but no fingerprints or intraspecific polymorphism characterising any of the phenotypes considered (both colour- and shape-based). Since eight polymorphic loci were clearly identified further studies of population genetic structure hold optimistic promise.
Severe electrolyte disturbances caused by fish poisoning are rarely reported in the literature. We present an unusual outbreak of palytoxin poisoning associated with the consumption of Goldspot herring (Herklotsichthys quadrimaculatus). Four family members became ill after eating 2 species of marine fish. The presenting symptoms and signs included bitter taste, oral numbness, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and hypertension, which were followed by myalgia, limb numbness, sensorimotor polyneuropathy, and abnormal cold and warm sensations. The index case manifested hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, and acute kidney injury, and developed severe cardiac dysrhythmias. He died 21 hours postingestion. Palytoxin and related compounds were identified by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry in one of the leftover fish. Palytoxin poisoning is rarely reported and is difficult to diagnose in the absence of laboratory confirmation. Palytoxin poisoning should be considered in patients who manifest hyperkalemia and hyperphosphatemia after the consumption of marine fish, and timely laboratory analysis should be sought.
We investigated the association between beta2-microglobulin, neopterin, serum levels of soluble urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR), CD4 count, and plasma viremia with survival in 133 HIV-2-infected villagers and 160 controls living in rural Guinea-Bissau. Subjects were recruited in 1991 and visited at home every 3-6 months until 1998. Median beta2-microglobulin, neopterin, and suPAR were significantly higher and CD4% significantly lower among HIV-2-infected individuals than controls. Thirty-one HIV-2-infected individuals died and 7 were lost to follow-up. beta2-Microglobulin, CD4%, and plasma viral load were associated independently with survival in multivariate analyses. Neopterin and suPAR did not reach statistical significance. These findings suggest that immune activation is central to the pathogenesis of HIV. They also have important implications for resource-poor settings where CD4 count and plasma viral load are unaffordable.
We used a quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR assay to measure the transcript abundance of 46 known and putative Helicobacter pylori virulence genes, including 24 genes on the Cag pathogenicity island. The expression profile of H. pylori cells grown in vitro was also compared to expression in vivo after experimental infection of rhesus macaques. Transcript abundance in vitro (mid-log phase) ranged from about 0.004 (feoB and hpaA) to 20 (ureAB, napA, and cag25) copies/cell. Expression of most genes was repressed during the transition from logarithmic- to stationary-phase growth, but several well-characterized H. pylori virulence genes (katA, napA, vacA, and cagA) were induced. Comparison of results in the rhesus macaque with similar data from humans showed a strong correlation (r = 0.89). The relative in vivo expression in the rhesus monkey was highly correlated with in vitro expression during mid-log (r = 0.89)- and stationary (r = 0.88)-phase growth. Transcript abundance was on average three- to fourfold reduced in vivo compared to in vitro during mid-log phase. However, when compared to stationary phase, increased expression in vivo was observed for 6 of 7 genes on a contiguous portion of the pathogenicity island, several of which are thought to encode the H. pylori type IV structural pilus and its accessory proteins. These results suggest the possibility that some genes encoding the H. pylori type IV structural pilus and accessory proteins may form an operon that is induced during growth in vivo.
Methods of adapting micro-organisms to an inhibiting factor in an active industrial bioprocess were examined with an acetic acid fermentation as model. With the aim of automatic control, a fuzzy-logic system was developed on the basis of the collected knowledge of skilled vinegar brewers. In a first step, this fuzzy system was to assess the actual adaptation degree of the bacteria on the basis of data from robust and reasonably priced sensors. From this information an appropriate setpoint value for the inhibiting factor 'final acid concentration' was derived for each batch cycle. As a result a further acid tolerance was found after several batch cycles. This adaptation effect should be used to increase the product concentration to more than 20 g per 100 ml acetic acid with a high productivity. The stepwise adapted culture was productive over the aimed acetic acid concentration, a 10% improvement of the product formation rate could be found compared with the status before conditioning. High product concentration and increased productivity finally result in shorter cycle times, less transport and storage volumes, an improved utilization of energy and material resources, and, last but not least, they are an essential steps towards the fulfillment of economical and ecological demands.
In this paper a three-level conceptualization of approaches to matching self-help behavior change strategies to individuals is presented based on the Transtheoretical Model of Change. Two of the model's intervention approaches, tailoring to Stage-of-Change and creating completely individualized interventions, have already been developed and implemented in previous research. A third intervention approach, in between stage-tailored and individualized, is targeting subtype groups within each Stage of Change. The subtype targeted intervention approach is in the initial development stage of empirically determining and validating the stage subtypes. Three studies are presented which investigate stage subtypes within a representative sample of 4,144 smokers in the Precontemplation, Contemplation, and Preparation Stages of Change. Within each Stage-of-Change study, two cluster analyses were performed using the Pros, Cons, and Situational Temptations from the Transtheoretical Model to establish cluster replicability. Cluster solutions were externally validated using the 10 Processes of Change and 2 smoking behavior variables. Four distinct subtypes were found in Precontemplation and Contemplation, and five subtypes were found in Preparation. These subtypes closely replicate subtypes previously found in a convenience sample of smokers and provide strong evidence for the existence of subtypes within the first three Stages of Change.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Tuberculosis (TB) is a crucial health problem. Prevention of the disease requires rapid diagnosis. Rapid liquid culture systems, nucleic acid amplification tests, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) are among the rapid tests used for detecting Mycobacterium species. However, these tests are expensive and require extensive equipment and expertise, which is hardly affordable in resource-poor countries. Although direct microscopy is performed routinely as an initial step for detection of the bacteria, it is not sufficiently sensitive. As a result, we thought of establishing a low-cost immunological test that can potentially replace direct microscopy with higher sensitivity and specificity. METHODS: The assay is based on pre-incubation of biotinylated rabbit antibody against Antigen 60 (A60) with a solution containing Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) or Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) followed by incubation with a streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase (STA-ALP) conjugate. The test is devised in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and non-ELISA formats, therefore it does not require extensive facilities and expertise. RESULTS: The ELISA format showed a 100-fold improvement in the lower detection limit of BCG compared with direct microscopy. With the non-ELISA formats, there was a 2- and 16-fold improvement for the cartridge assay and the microfuge tube assay, respectively. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we successfully detected BCG and MTB in solution using the new immunological method. Our results are very promising and the new immunological method could potentially replace direct microscopy with higher sensitivity and specificity.
Human rhinovirus (HRV) is the virus most often associated with acute upper respiratory tract infections. Advances in molecular detection have shown that HRV is also the major viral cause of asthma exacerbations. Genotypic assignment and identification of HRV types are of significant value in the investigation of type-associated differences in disease outcomes, transmission, and epidemiology. Here, we describe a genotyping process involving two separate RT-PCR assays, targeted to VP4/VP2 and 5' UTR regions of HRV genome, respectively. Together with the reference sequences of each HRV species, the generated sequences are used to construct phylogenetic tree for genotyping.
Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) and Streptomyces violaceoruber Tu22 produce the antibiotics actinorhodin and granaticin, respectively. Both the aglycone of granaticin and the half-molecule of actinorhodin are derived from one acetyl coenzyme A starter unit and seven malonyl coenzyme A extender units via the polyketide pathway to produce benzoisochromane quinone moieties with identical structures (except for the stereochemistry at two chiral centers). In S. coelicolor and S. violaceoruber, the type II polyketide synthase (PKS) is encoded by clusters of five and six genes, respectively. We complemented a series of S. coelicolor mutants (act) defective in different components of the PKS (actI for carbon chain assembly, actIII for ketoreduction, and actVII for cyclization-dehydration) by the corresponding genes (gra) from S. violaceoruber introduced in trans on low-copy-number plasmids. This procedure showed that four of the act PKS components could be replaced by a heterologous gra protein to give a functional PKS. The analysis also served to identify which of three candidate open reading frames (ORFs) in the actI region had been altered in each of a set of 13 actI mutants. It also proved that actI-ORF2 (whose putative protein product shows overall similarity to the beta-ketoacyl synthase encoded by actI-ORF1 but whose function is unclear) is essential for PKS function. Mutations in each of the four complemented act genes (actI-ORF1, actI-ORF2, actIII, and actVII) were cloned and sequenced, revealing a nonsense or frameshift mutation in each mutant.
BACKGROUND: Outbreaks of norovirus can have a significant operational and financial impact on healthcare establishments. AIM: To assess whether containment of symptomatic patients in single rooms and bays at the beginning and end of norovirus outbreaks reduced the length of bed closure. METHODS: In 2007, we introduced a new strategy to limit the operational impact of hospital outbreaks of norovirus. Early in an outbreak, symptomatic patients were cohorted in single rooms or bays in an attempt to contain the outbreak without closing the entire ward. Once a ward had been closed, and as beds became available through discharges, patients were decanted into single rooms or empty bays with doors to facilitate earlier cleaning and opening of affected areas on the same ward. The impact of these changes was assessed by comparing outbreak data for two periods before and after implementation of the new strategy. FINDINGS: Prior to June 2007, 90% of outbreaks were managed by closure of an entire ward, compared with only 54% from June 2007 onwards. The duration of closure was significantly shorter for bays compared with entire wards, both before (3.5 vs 6, P = 0.0327) and after (3 vs 5, P < 0.0001) June 2007. When considering all outbreaks, there was a significant reduction in duration of closure after the change in strategy (6 vs 5, P = 0.007). CONCLUSION: Using ward compartmentalization to cohort affected patients at the beginning and end of norovirus outbreaks improved the efficiency of outbreak management and reduced operational disruption.
In this study we characterised the development of caecal microbiota in egg laying hens over their commercial production lifespan, from the day of hatching until 60 weeks of age. Using pyrosequencing of V3/V4 variable regions of 16S rRNA genes for microbiota characterisation, we were able to define 4 different stages of caecal microbiota development. The first stage lasted for the first week of life and was characterised by a high prevalence of Enterobacteriaceae (phylum Proteobacteria). The second stage lasted from week 2 to week 4 and was characterised by nearly an absolute dominance of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae (both phylum Firmicutes). The third stage lasted from month 2 to month 6 and was characterised by the succession of Firmicutes at the expense of Bacteroidetes. The fourth stage was typical for adult hens in full egg production aged 7 months or more and was characterised by a constant ratio of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes formed by equal numbers of the representatives of both phyla.
BACKGROUND: Recent studies on perioperative fluid administration in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery have suggested that increased fluid loads are associated with worse perioperative outcomes. However, results of retrospective analyses of the relationship between intraoperative fluid (IOF) administration and perioperative outcomes in patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) are conflicted. We sought to investigate this relationship in patients undergoing PD at our academic center. METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 124 patients undergoing PD from 2007 to 2012 was performed. IOF administration rate (ml/kg/hr) was correlated with perioperative outcomes. Outcomes were also stratified by preoperative serum albumin level. RESULTS: Regression analyses were performed comparing independent perioperative variables, including IOF rate, to four outcomes variables: length of stay, severity of complications, number of complications per patient, and 30-day mortality. Both univariate and multivariate regression analyses showed IOF rate correlated with one or more perioperative outcomes. Patients with an albumin </= 3.0 g/dl who received more than the median IOF rate experienced more severe complications, while patients with an albumin >3.0 g/dl did not. CONCLUSION: Increased IOF administration is associated with worse perioperative outcomes in patients undergoing PD. Patients with low preoperative serum albumin levels (</= 3.0 g/dl) may be a group particularly sensitive to volume overload.
Molecular optical imaging has shown promise in visualizing molecular biomarkers with subcellular resolution both noninvasively and in real-time. Here, we use gold nanoparticles as optical probes to provide meaningful signal in the presence of targeted biomarkers. We present a novel conjugation technique to control the binding orientation of antibodies on the surface of gold nanoparticles to maximize antibody functionality. Briefly, a heterobifunctional linker, hydrazide-polyethylene glycol-dithiol, is used to directionally attach the Fc, or nonbinding region of the antibody, to the gold nanoparticle surface. The conjugation strategy allows for multiplexing various glycosylated antibodies on a single nanoparticle. We present a method to prepare multifunctional nanoparticles by incorporating targeting and delivery moieties on the same nanoparticle that addresses the challenge of imaging intracellular biomarkers. The time estimate for the entire protocol is approximately 6 h.
Proteins, due to their delicate balance of stabilizing and destabilizing interactions, are only marginally stable if physiological conditions are considered as the standard state. Enhanced intrinsic stability of "ultrastable" proteins, e.g., from extremophiles, requires only minute local structural changes. Thus, general strategies of stabilization are not available for temperature, pH, salt, or pressure adaptation. Mechanisms of enhanced thermal stability involve improved packing or docking of structural elements (domains, subunits), as well as specific local interactions, e.g., networks of ion pairs. Relating the structure and stability of eye lens crystallins (which do not undergo any turnover during the life time of an organism), point mutations, nicking and swapping of domains, grafting of linker peptides between domains, and denaturation-renaturation allowed the cumulative nature of protein stability and its relation to the hierarchy of protein structure and folding to be established. In this review, recent results for crystallins and enzymes from hyperthermophiles will be discussed as models to illustrate mechanisms of protein stabilization.
This study evaluated the toxicity profiles of temozolomide in the treatment of malignant glioma as either concurrent or adjuvant chemotherapy. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 300 malignant glioma patients treated with temozolomide in two medical institutions in Korea between 2004 and 2010. Two hundred nine patients experienced a total of 618 toxicities during temozolomide therapy. A total of 84.8% of the 618 toxicities were Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade 1 or 2, while 15.2% were grade 3 or 4. Among the hematologic toxicities, thrombocytopenia (13.7%), anemia (11.0%), and AST/ALT increases (7.0%) were common. Among the non-hematologic toxicities, nausea (44.3%), vomiting (37.0%), and anorexia (14.3%) were the three most common toxicities. There was no mortality due to temozolomide. Although temozolomide showed many types of toxicities, the majority of the toxicities were tolerable and of lower grade. Gastrointestinal troubles are the most common toxicities in Korean patients treated with temozolomide.
Optineurin (OPTN) mutations have been reported in a cohort of Japanese patients with familial (FALS) and sporadic (SALS) amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In Caucasian patients, OPTN mutations have been identified in FALS patients, but were not detected in a cohort of 95 SALS patients. Moreover, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in OPTN that could raise amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) susceptibility have not been investigated. Therefore, we screened a large Dutch cohort of 1191 patients with SALS, 94 patients with FALS, and 1415 control subjects for mutations and SNPs in OPTN. We identified 1 novel nonsense mutation (Q165X) and 1 unreported missense mutation (Q454E) in individual SALS patients. These patients demonstrated rapid disease progression with an average survival of 24.5 months. No heterozygous or homozygous OPTN mutations were identified in our cohort of FALS patients. SNP analysis did not reveal significant differences between ALS patients and control subjects. Therefore, variations in OPTN appear to be a rare cause of rapidly progressive SALS in the Netherlands.
DNA and RNA specific dyes, Ag-NOR staining and in situ hybridization were used for studying the nucleolar apparatus in the growing oocytes of Henricia hayashi (Asteroidea: Echinasteridae). A plasmid containing ribosomal genes of Drosophila melanogaster (Kolchinsky et al., 1980) labelled with 3H by nick-translation served as an rDNA probe. Multiple extrachromosomal nucleoli are formed by the cascade type as a result of growth and subsequent fragmentation of the chromosomal (primary) rDNA body and its derivative extrachromosomal (secondary) rDNA bodies. Ribosomal genes were shown in all nucleolar structures. Argentophilia of the primary and secondary DNA bodies appears to be due to the dense packing of the rDNA-containing material. Ag(+) NORs were detected in the extrachromosomal multiple nucleoli and NOR complexes. Amplification of rDNA is a highly probable conclusion from the existing data.
Dysregulation of dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A) has been demonstrated in several pathological conditions, including Alzheimer's disease and cancer progression. It has been recently reported that a gain of function-mutation in the human DYRK1B gene exacerbates metabolic syndrome by enhancing obesity. In the previous study, we developed an inhibitor of DYRK family kinases (INDY) and demonstrated that INDY suppresses the pathological phenotypes induced by overexpression of DYRK1A or DYRK1B in cellular and animal models. In this study, we designed and synthesized a novel inhibitor of DYRK family kinases based on the crystal structure of the DYRK1A/INDY complex by replacing the phenol group of INDY with dibenzofuran to produce a derivative, named BINDY. This compound exhibited potent and selective inhibitory activity toward DYRK family kinases in an in vitro assay. Furthermore, treatment of 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes with BINDY hampered adipogenesis by suppressing gene expression of the critical transcription factors PPARgamma and C/EBPalpha. This study indicates the possibility of BINDY as a potential drug for metabolic syndrome.
For mothers with breastfeeding difficulties, pumping can be recommended to help establish milk production. However, pumping may present some barriers to successful breastfeeding. Mothers with milk supply concern may be at higher risk of barriers to successful breastfeeding. No previous studies have described experiences of pumping among mothers with milk supply concern. We conducted 10 focus groups of 56 mothers who had milk supply concern in the first month after birth. A paid, trained facilitator led groups in a semi-structured approach. Sessions were audiorecorded and transcribed verbatim. The transcripts were coded independently by two investigators and analysed using grounded theory. We identified five themes related to the experience of pumping among mothers with milk supply concern: (1) additional control over breastfeeding from pumping: 'I would feed and then give him ... whatever I could manage to pump to him'. (2) Painful experience: 'The first time I pumped my boobs hurt so bad'. (3) Pumped volume affected milk supply concern: 'Pump and there was hardly anything coming out that's when I started to worry'. (4) Pumping interfered with other nurturing activities: 'While you're pumping, you can't touch the baby'. (5) Frustration from inconsistent provider advice: 'They told me to pump ... and then said, "That's going to cause your milk to increase too much" '. Mothers had positive and negative experiences with pumping. Clinicians should assess a mother's experience shortly after she initiates pumping, as further management and counselling may be necessary to avoid barriers to successful breastfeeding.
A series of novel 1-(2'-hydroxy-3'-aroxypropyl)-3-aryl-1H-pyrazole-5-carbohydrazide derivatives were synthesized, and the effects of the compounds on A549 cell growth were investigated. The results showed that all of the 1-(2'-hydroxy-3'-aroxypropyl)-3-aryl-1H-pyrazole-5-carbohydrazide derivatives 2 could inhibit the growth of A549 cells in dosage- and time-dependent manners. Typically, compound 2a and 2d induced A549 cells to autophagy but did not cause apoptosis and necrosis in the cells, and 2d had the most autophagy inducing effect in H460 cells. More importantly, 2a and 2d did not inhibit the growth of HUVEC cells.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) suppress alloantigen-induced T-cell functions in vitro and infusion of third-party MSCs seems to be a promising therapy for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Little is known about the specificity of immunosuppression by MSCs, in particular the effect on immunity to pathogens. We have studied how MSCs affect T-cell responses specific to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV). We found that EBV- and CMV-induced proliferation and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was less affected by third-party MSCs than the response to alloantigen and that MSCs had no effect on expansion of EBV and CMV pentamer-specific T cells. Established EBV-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTL) or CMV-CTL cultured with MSCs retained the ability to proliferate and produce IFN-gamma in response to their cognate antigen and to kill virally infected targets. Finally, PBMCs from 2 patients who received MSCs for acute GVHD showed persistence of CMV-specific T cells and retained IFN-gamma response to CMV after MSC infusion. In summary, MSCs have little effect on T-cell responses to EBV and CMV, which contrasts to their strong immunosuppressive effects on alloreactive T cells. These data have major implications for immunotherapy of GVHD with MSCs and suggest that the effector functions of virus-specific T cells may be retained after MSC infusion.
Escherichia coli O157:H7 survival in acid foods such as unpasteurized apple cider and fermented sausage is well documented. Researchers have determined that E. coli O157:H7 can survive in refrigerated acid foods for weeks. The potential of acid foods to serve as a vector of E. coli O157:H7 foodborne illness prompted this study to determine the fate of this organism in retail mustard containing acetic acid when stored at room and refrigerated temperatures. Various retail brands of dijon, yellow, and deli style mustard, pH ranging from 3.17 to 3.63, were inoculated individually with three test strains of E. coli O157:H7. Samples were inoculated with approximately 1.0 x 10(6) CFU/g, incubated at room (25+/-2.5 degrees C) and refrigerated (5+/-3 degrees C) temperatures, and assayed for surviving test strains at predetermined time intervals. An aliquot was appropriately diluted and plated using sorbitol MacConkey agar (SMAC). When the test strain was not recoverable by direct plating, the sample was assayed by enrichment in modified tryptic soy broth and recovered using SMAC. Growth of E. coli O157:H7 test strains was inhibited in all retail mustard styles. E. coli O157:H7 was not detected in dijon style mustard beyond 3 h at room and 2 days at refrigerated temperatures. Survival in yellow and deli style mustard was not detected beyond 1 h. Overall, test strain survival was greater at refrigerated than room temperature. Retail mustard demonstrated the ability to eliminate effectively any chance contamination by this organism within hours to days, suggesting that these products are not a likely factor in E. coli O157:H7 foodborne illness.
The first outbreak of citrus tristeza disease in Spain caused by Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) was recorded in 1957 in the Valencian Community (VC). In total c. 40 million trees, mainly of sweet orange and mandarin grafted on sour orange rootstocks, declined due to CTV. Large-scale surveys in different municipalities of the VC indicated that the disease spread very fast. Incidence increased from 11% in 1989 to 53% in 1998. Toxoptera aurantii and Aphis spiraecola (inefficient aphid vectors of CTV) predominated before 1985-87. Since then the relatively efficient vector Aphis gossypii has become dominant and induced an epidemic that has been modelled. The large number of A.gossypii that visited each clementine tree (estimated to exceed 97000 per year) explained the difference between the temporal pattern of spread of CTV in clementine which followed the Gompertz model and that in sweet orange (logistic model). The susceptibility of the different citrus species to CTV infection by aphids seems to depend on the number of young, succulent shoots produced. The epidemiological data allowed specific recommendations to be made to growers in order to facilitate a change to a modern citrus industry based on the use of selected varieties grafted on tristeza-tolerant rootstocks produced within a certification scheme. This has been done already in almost 90% of the VC citrus-growing area. The tristeza problem has been solved unless more aggressive isolates are introduced and become prevalent.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) influence bladder afferent activity and reflex sensitivity, and have been suggested as potential targets for treating detrusor overactivity. Mechanisms may include indirect effects, e.g. involving the urothelium, and direct action on nAChR expressed by afferent neurons. Here we determined the nAChR repertoire of bladder afferent neurons by retrograde neuronal tracing and laser-assisted microdissection/reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and quantified retrogradely labelled nAChRalpha3-subunit-expressing neurons by immunohistochemistry in nAChR alpha3beta4alpha5 cluster enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) reporter mice. Bladder afferents distinctly expressed mRNAs encoding for nAChR-subunits alpha3, alpha6, alpha7, beta2-4, and weakly alpha4. Based upon known combinatorial patterns of subunits, this predicts the expression of at least three basically different subunits of nAChR - alpha3( *), alpha6( *) and alpha7( *) - and of additional combinations with beta-subunits and alpha5. Bladder afferents were of all sizes, and their majority (69%; n=1367) were eGFP-nAChRalpha3 positive. Immunofluorescence revealed immunoreactivities to neurofilament 68 (NF68), transient receptor potential cation channel vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in eGFP-nAChRalpha3-positive and -negative neurons. For each antigen, all possible combinations of colocalisation with eGFP-nAChRalpha3 were observed, with eGFP-nAChRalpha3-positive bladder neurons without additional immunoreactivity being most numerous, followed by triple-labelled neurons. In conclusion, more than one population of bladder afferent neurons expresses nAChR, indicating that peripheral nicotinic initiation and modulation of bladder reflexes might result, in addition to indirect effects, from the direct activation of sensory terminals. The expression of multiple nAChR subunits offers the potential of selectively addressing functional aspects and/or sensory neuron subpopulations.
This study aims to evaluate an osteoporosis self-assessment tool for Asians (OSTA) and quantitative bone ultrasound (QUS) and their combination in detecting populations at high risk for osteoporosis, and to determine the best cutoff value for the diagnosis of osteoporosis among elderly Chinese men. A group of Chinese men, aged >/= 60 years, recruited from the health checkup population of Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, were included. The OSTA index was calculated from age and weight. Bone mineral density (BMD) at left hip (femoral neck, internal, and total hip) and lumbar spine (L1-L4, L-Total) was measured with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), and calcaneal BMD was measured with QUS. Receiver operating characteristic analysis was used to determine the best cutoff values, sensitivity, and specificity. The area under the curve (AUC) between the different screening tools was compared. Our study included 472 men with mean age of 78.0 years. The prevalence of osteoporosis was 27.7%.The best cutoff for OSTA was -3.5 for predicting men with osteoporosis at any site; this yielded a sensitivity and specificity of 47.3% and 76.8%, respectively. The AUC for OSTA was 0.676. The optimal cutoff for QUS-T score was -1.25, with a sensitivity of 80.4% and specificity of 59.7%. The AUC for QUS-T score was 0.762. Combining QUS with OSTA improved the specificity to 92.9% but reduced sensitivity to 36.1%. A new variable derived from a combination of OSTA and the QUS-T score gave a better performance, with sensitivity of 70.1% and specificity of 72.1%; the AUC for this variable was 0.771, which was greater than OSTA but not different from QUS alone. In conclusion, OSTA and QUS, respectively, and their combination may help find populations at high risk for osteoporosis, which could be an alternative method for diagnosing osteoporosis, especially in areas where DXA measurement is not accessible.
OBJECTIVE: We previously examined the expression of specific C-terminal mu-opioid receptor (MOR) splice variants in human central nervous system cell types and HIV-infected brain tissue from individuals with neurocognitive impairment +/- HIV encephalitis (HIVE). In the present study, we examined the N-terminal splice variant MOR-1K, which mediates excitatory cellular signaling. METHODS AND RESULTS: We found segregation of expression ranging from undetectable to seemingly exclusive across nervous system cell types compared to the pool of C-terminal MOR splice variants using the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Expression of MOR-1K mRNA was also increased in HIV-infected individuals with combined neurocognitive impairment and HIVE compared with the other groups. MOR-1K expression correlated with the level of patient neurocognitive impairment, whereas the pool of C-terminal MOR splice variants did not. HIVE was also associated with increased expression of the inflammatory mediators MCP-1, MCP-2, and RANTES, but not the host HIV coreceptors CXCR4 and CCR5 or the CD4 receptor using qRT-PCR. Network analysis of microarray data from these same patients revealed filamin A (FLNA) as a possible interaction partner with MOR-1K, and FLNA gene expression was also found to be upregulated in HIVE using qRT-PCR. Overexpression of FLNA in HEK293 cells redistributed MOR-1K from intracellular compartments to the cell surface. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that HIVE, and neurocognitive impairment depending on its severity, are associated with enhanced MOR-1K signaling through both increased expression and trafficking to the cell surface, which may alter the contribution of MOR receptor isoforms and exacerbate the effects of MOR activation in neuroAIDS.
BACKGROUND: Keys are an important exposure source of metal allergens to consumers and confer a significant problem for nickel-allergic individuals because of repeated daily use. OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study were to investigate the frequency of nickel and cobalt release in keys and to consider the effectiveness of coatings for preventing metallic allergen release from common metal allergen-releasing keys. METHODS: Keys from a variety of common stores were nickel and cobalt spot tested. Nickel-releasing keys were coated with enamel sprays, subjected to a use test, and retested to assess for metal allergen release. RESULTS: Of 55 tested keys, 80% showed a strong positive result to the nickel spot test. None of the tested keys exhibited cobalt release. No keys initially released nickel after enamel coatings. Key coatings chipped at the portion inserted into a lock after 30 insertions, and keys were found to release nickel. The handle of the key was not found to release nickel after 60 insertions. CONCLUSIONS: Nickel release from keys is very common; nickel-allergic consumers should consider purchasing keys that do not release nickel (eg, brass, anodized). Enamel coating may be useful in protecting nickel-sensitive individuals from their keys but cannot consistently prevent nickel-release from portions used frequently.
We used decision analysis to assess the cost profile associated with preoperative use of tranexamic acid (TXA) to prevent major bleeding complications associated with hip and knee arthroplasty surgery. We defined major bleeding complications as blood loss sufficient to require transfusion or surgical evacuation of a postoperative hematoma. In the absence of a reduction in revision rates, using current cost data, TXA use is not cost-saving for institutions with baseline blood transfusion rates under 25%. For centers with baseline transfusion rates above 25%, however, TXA becomes increasingly cost-saving as the reduction in transfusion rates seen with use of the drug increases, but a minimum 12% reduction in transfusion rates is needed, even if the expected baseline transfusion rate is 100%. Nevertheless, TXA use is much more likely to be cost-saving, regardless of transfusion rates, if it leads to a reduction in need for revision surgery.
Endocrine factors, such as steroid hormones and growth factors, regulate egg productivity in terms of the quantity of egg production, egg weight, sexual maturity, and the number of small yellow follicles (SYF). Insulin-like growth factors (IGF) are involved in the regulation of ovulation rate and ovarian follicular development in chickens, and a relationship between IGF-I genotype and egg weight has been reported. However, the effect of IGF on egg productivity in Korean Native Ogol chickens (KNOC) has been little studied. Therefore, this study was conducted to identify the relationship among endocrine factors (IGF-I, IGF-II, estradiol, and progesterone), IGF-I genotypes, and egg productivity. Frequencies of IGF-I genotypes (AA, AB, BB) were 17.3, 26.9, and 55.8%, respectively, within a population. When compared with the IGF-I genotypes, the AB genotype had the highest serum levels of estradiol and progesterone at 40 and 30 wk of age, respectively; the highest IGF-II concentration in F1 follicles at 60 wk; and was positively associated with the number of SYF at 60 wk. The results showed that the A allele was associated with a higher IGF-II expression in the follicles and stimulated the development of follicles, indicating a positive association of the A allele with egg production and the number of SYF. Therefore, these results suggest that there is a possibility of IGF-I genotypes acting as a genetic marker for egg productivity of KNOC.
Hypochondroplasia (HCP) is an autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasia characterized by short extremities, short stature and lumbar lordosis, usually exhibiting a phenotype similar to but milder than achondroplasia (ACP). Fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene (FGFR3) mutations in the germline are well-known causes of skeletal syndromes. FGFR3 is a negative regulator of bone growth and all mutations in FGFR3 are gain-of-function mutations that lead to skeletal dysplasias. We report a child who presented with short stature, a relatively long trunk, short legs, short arm span, radiographic evidence of HCP and mild mental retardation. Genetic analysis revealed a heterozygous 1620C>G (Asn540Lys) mutation in FGFR3. To our knowledge, ours is the first case report of HCP with a heterozygous 1620C>G (Asn540Lys) mutation in Turkey.
Gene expression is highly regulated at the step of transcription initiation, and transcription activators play a critical role in this process. RbpA, an actinobacterial transcription activator that is essential in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), binds selectively to group 1 and certain group 2 sigma-factors. To delineate the molecular mechanism of RbpA, we show that the Mtb RbpA sigma-interacting domain (SID) and basic linker are sufficient for transcription activation. We also present the crystal structure of the Mtb RbpA-SID in complex with domain 2 of the housekeeping sigma-factor, sigma(A). The structure explains the basis of sigma-selectivity by RbpA, showing that RbpA interacts with conserved regions of sigma(A) as well as the nonconserved region (NCR), which is present only in housekeeping sigma-factors. Thus, the structure is the first, to our knowledge, to show a protein interacting with the NCR of a sigma-factor. We confirm the basis of selectivity and the observed interactions using mutagenesis and functional studies. In addition, the structure allows for a model of the RbpA-SID in the context of a transcription initiation complex. Unexpectedly, the structural modeling suggests that RbpA contacts the promoter DNA, and we present in vivo and in vitro studies supporting this finding. Our combined data lead to a better understanding of the mechanism of RbpA function as a transcription activator.
In learning and memory studies on honeybees (Apis mellifera), cold-induced narcosis has been widely used to temporarily immobilize honeybees. In this study, we investigated the effects of cold narcosis on the associative memories in honeybees by using the proboscis extension response (PER) paradigm. Severe impairments in memory acquisition was found when cold narcosis was performed 30 min, instead of 1 h before training. Locomotor activities were reduced when honeybees were tested 15 min, instead of 30 min after cold narcosis. These results indicate that cold narcosis impairs locomotor activities, as well as memory acquisition in a time-dependent manner, but by comparison no such effects on memory retrieval have yet been observed.[0].
Heme oxygenase catalyzes the first and rate-controlling step of heme catabolism. Induction of heme oxygenase-1 can be caused by numerous factors, including heme, other metalloporphyrins, transition metal ions, heat shock, ultraviolet light, phorbol esters, sodium arsenite, and phenylarsine oxide (PAO). Induction of this enzyme may protect cells from oxidative damage. Using heme oxygenase-1 promoter/reporter gene constructs, we have previously reported that the sodium arsenite-mediated induction of heme oxygenase-1 in chick embryo liver cells and chicken hepatoma (LMH) cells involves an AP-1 element. We have now investigated whether the PAO-mediated induction of heme oxygenase-1 also involves an AP-1 element. Primary cultures of chick embryo liver cells were transiently transfected with heme oxygenase-1 promoter/reporter gene constructs, treated with PAO, and reporter gene activities were measured. We found that the PAO-mediated increase in reporter gene activity was dose- and time-dependent. This activity was decreased by prior treatment with N-acetylcysteine. Studies with mutated constructs showed that both an AP-1 element and a metal responsive element are involved in the PAO-mediated induction of the heme oxygenase-1 reporter construct. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that nuclear proteins from PAO-treated cells had increased binding to an AP-1 probe, and that this increase was abrogated by N-acetylcysteine. These findings support the hypothesis that the PAO-mediated induction of heme oxygenase-1 is caused by activation of AP-1 and MRE/cMyc elements and may involve nuclear proteins whose states of phosphorylation determine binding to regulatory elements, and thus the level of expression of heme oxygenase-1.
Information on the distribution and prevalence of the economically destructive Begomovirus species and recombinant forms infecting fresh-market and processing tomato crops in Brazil is crucial in guiding breeding programs and also to understand the evolutionary mechanisms associated with the upsurge of so many species and quasi-species comprising this unique disease complex. An extensive survey was carried out over 3 years (between 2002 and 2004) aiming to study the diversity of begomoviruses in tomato plants, predominantly collected in central Brazil. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with degenerated primers was used to detect the begomoviruses in tomato leaf samples showing virus-like symptoms in commercial fields. Seven hundred and seventeen out of 2,295 samples were found to be PCR positive for a begomovirus infection. High quality sequences were obtained from a fragment encompassing the 5' region of the coat protein (CP) gene and a segment of the intergenic region for 295 isolates from distinct geographic regions. Comparison analyses with those available in public databases enabled preliminary classification of the isolates into four previously described and/or proposed species: Tomato severe rugose virus (61%), Tomato golden vein virus (29.8%), Tomato mottle leaf curl virus (7.1%), Tomato yellow vein streak virus (0.7%), and two putative new species (1.4% of isolates). Within the prevailing species, we noted a relatively low degree of diversity, possibly indicating the existence of recent population founder effects and/or recent selective sweeps.
We have investigated whether canine parvovirus (CPV) infection involves a low pH-dependent entry pathway. The effects of two lysosomotropic bases, NH4Cl and chloroquine, on CPV entry were studied by immunofluorescence and ultrastructural and biochemical methods. In the presence of these reagents, input virions appear to accumulate in large vacuoles. Ultrastructural studies indicated that uptake of virions takes place predominantly in small uncoated vesicles that appear to fuse with larger vesicles. In the presence of NH4Cl, virions accumulate in the latter structures and their uncoating appears to be prevented. Viral DNA as well as antigen synthesis were found to be significantly inhibited in the presence of these reagents. In addition, inhibition of viral DNA and antigen synthesis appeared to be most extensive when NH4Cl was present from 30 min preinfection, whereas no significant inhibition was observed when the cells were treated after 2 hr postinfection. Thus, the results indicate that CPV requires exposure to low pH in an endosomal compartment to initiate a productive infection.
Delay in seeking treatment for breast cancer is a barrier to the early diagnosis and management of the disease, resulting in a poorer prognosis. We here estimated the prevalence of delayed presentation for breast cancer and identified possible influential sociodemographic factors in a cross-sectional study of 250 patients diagnosed with primary breast cancer at the Radiotherapy and Oncology Clinic in Kuala Lumpur Hospital. Data were collected by face-to-face interview using a structured questionnaire and from medical records. We examined associations between delayed presentation (presenting to a physician more than 3 months after self-discovery of a symptom) and sociodemographic characteristics, practice of breast self examination (BSE), history of benign breast disease, family history of breast cancer and type of symptom, symptom disclosure and advice from others to seek treatment using multiple logistic regression. Time from self-discovery of symptom to presentation ranged from tghe same day to 5 years. Prevalence of delayed presentation was 33.1% (95%CI: 27.4, 39.3). A significantly higher proportion of delayers presented with late stages (stage III/IV) (58.3% vs. 26.9%, p<0.001). Divorced or widowed women (OR: 2.23, 95% CI: 1.11, 4.47) had a higher risk of delayed presentation than married women and women who never performed breast self examination were more likely to delay presentation compared to those who regularly performed BSE (OR: 2.74, 95% CI: 1.33, 5.64). Our findings indicate that delayed presentation for breast cancer symptoms among Malaysian women is high and that marital status and breast self examination play major roles in treatment-seeking for breast cancer symptoms.
STUDY DESIGN: Serial retrospective long-term follow-up study. OBJECTIVE: To assess the long-term results of anterior surgery with Cloward trephination and iliac strut grafting for cervical spondylotic myelopathy. SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Anterior surgery remains the most common surgical option and generally gives good results, although early and late deterioration after initial postoperative improvement has been noted. Although anterior decompression with trephination is a variant of the Cloward technique, little information is available concerning the long-term results after this procedure. METHODS: One hundred sixty-eight consecutive patients treated with this technique by the same author from the years 1978 to 1992 were followed serially. One hundred and seven patients were followed for over 10 years (mean: 14.1 y) (follow-up rate: 71.8%). Clinical results were evaluated according to the Japanese Orthopedic Association system and the results at different postoperative intervals were analyzed. Thirty-six patients returned for the final follow-up. Plain radiographs were taken in neutral and flexion-extension positions and computed tomography scans were taken at fused segments and unfused levels. RESULTS: The mean recovery rate was 56.8% at final follow-up. Deterioration of 2 Japanese Orthopedic Association points or more was experienced in 44 patients at various postoperative periods and was more frequent at over 10 years follow-up. Kyphosis of fused segments was noted frequently on the radiographies of the 36 patients with a mean of 7.8 degrees. A straight or misaligned cervical spine was found in 28 (77.8%) patients and these deformities were more serious in multilevel fusions. Stenosis of the canal at fused segments was found in 15 (41.7%) patients owing to osteogenesis resulting from inadequate decompression or pseudoarthrosis. At unfused levels, the incidence of spondylolisthesis, bony bridge, disc hernia, and thickening or bulging of the ligament flavum was 19.4%, 27.8%, 33.3%, 19.4%, respectively, and these abnormalities almost always occurred at levels adjacent to the fusion. Radiographic abnormalities were pejorative for long-term clinical results. CONCLUSIONS: Anterior surgery with Cloward trephination provides generally acceptable long-term results with considerable incidences of deterioration and radiographic abnormalities. This underlines the need for thorough decompression and preservation of the subchondral endplate bone for solid fusion and maintenance of the cervical lordotic curvature.
Sequences generated from the mitochondrial genome provide useful molecular markers for defining population groups, for tracing the genetic history of an individual or a particular group of related individuals, and for constructing deep-branch taxonomic phylogenies. There is every reason to believe that the mitochondrial genome will be as valuable in studies on flatworms, such as the human schistosomes, as it has been for other taxa. To date, however, our knowledge of mitochondrial genomes of flatworms remains limited, and this review summarises the currently available information. In particular, details of the recent sequence obtained for cloned Schistosoma mansoni mitochondrial DNA fragments spanning over half of the mitochondrial genome of this species are emphasised. This and other information, available as a result of the Schistosome Genome Project, provide the basis for obtaining the complete mitochondrial DNA sequence and gene order of S. mansoni and the other human schistosomes. The availability of complete mitochondrial DNA sequences from the different species will facilitate much more in-depth study of genetic diversity and host specificity in schistosomes and the interrelationships between the various forms infecting humans and between these and other flatworms.
The DNMT3-like protein, DNMT3L, is required for germ line DNA methylation, although it is inactive as a DNA methyltransferase per se. Previous studies have shown that DNMT3L physically associates with the active de novo DNA methyltransferases, DNMT3A and DNMT3B, and stimulates their catalytic activities in a cell culture system. However, the mechanism by which DNMT3L stimulates de novo methylation remains unclear. Here, we have purified the full-length human DNMT3A2 and DNMT3L proteins and determined unique conditions that allow for the proper reconstitution of the stimulation of DNMT3A2 de novo methyltransferase activity by DNMT3L. These conditions include the use of buffers resembling physiological conditions and the preincubation of the two proteins. Under these conditions, maximal stimulation is reached at equimolar amounts of DNMT3L and DNMT3A2 proteins, and the catalytic efficiency of DNMT3A2 is increased up to 20-fold. Biochemical analysis revealed that whereas DNMT3L on its own does not significantly bind to the methyl group donor, S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM), it strongly increases the binding of SAM to DNMT3A2. DNA binding, on the contrary, was not appreciably improved. Analysis of DNA methyltransferase complexes in solution using size exclusion chromatography revealed that DNMT3A2 forms large structures of heterogeneous sizes, whereas DNMT3L appears as a monomer. Binding of DNMT3L to DNMT3A2 promotes a dramatic reorganization of DNMT3A2 subunits and leads to the formation of specific complexes with enhanced DNA methyltransferase activity and increased SAM binding.
INTRODUCTION: Heterotopic ossification (HO) after THA can lead to pain, impaired range of motion and possibly revision surgery. This article summarizes current literature on the pathogenesis of HO in THA and trauma. Second, it presents the results of a survey on prophylactic concepts for HO in Germany. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A narrative literature review was conducted by searching three databases (Pubmed, ScienceDirect, the Cochrane library) on the aetiology of HO. Between 2013 and 2014, a questionnaire was sent to 119 orthopaedic and trauma surgery departments in Germany. RESULTS: The acquired form of HO seems to develop after tissue trauma, which induces a local inflammation. A change in tissue conditions, multiple signalling pathways and involvement of several different cell types seem to promote enchondral ossification and finally HO formation. The feed back rate of the survey was 67%. Eighty-seven percent of all departments currently administer NSAIDs with a mean time span of 3 weeks after surgery for oral prophylaxis. Prophylactic perioperative irradiation is performed in 64% of trauma/orthopaedic departments if the patient is at risk for HO with a mean dosage of 7 Gy. CONCLUSIONS: Basic research detected new pathways and cell signalling mechanisms of HO pathogenesis, which could offer new treatment and prophylaxis options in the near future. So far, there is no uniform strategy for the clinical prophylaxis of HO in THA. Guidelines and new clinical trials need to be developed to further reduce HO rates in THA.
The pre-B lymphoma in SL/Kh mice is a polygenic trait involving a number of host genes. In prelymphoma-stage bone marrow, transient pre-B cell expansion is induced by a host locus, Bomb1, and later followed by the emergence of a monoclonal population with a similar phenotype. To determine whether these pre-B cells represent precursors of lymphomas, we generated a congenic strain, NFS.SL/Kh-Bomb1 mice, by marker-assisted backcrossing to NFS. The congenic mice showed pre-B cell expansion, but pre-B lymphomas were not observed, even after 1 year of observation, irrespective of murine leukemia virus inoculation. Disturbed early B cell differentiation per se is not sufficient for SL/Kh lymphomagenesis.
OBJECTIVES: The aim was to study the effect of naringenin, a biologically active compound, on tissue antioxidant status and lipid peroxidation in ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity in rats. METHODS: Rats were divided into four groups: Groups 1 and 2 received isocaloric glucose and 0.5% carboxymethyl cellulose; groups 3 and 4 received 20% ethanol equivalent to 6 g/kg daily for 60 days. In addition, groups 2 and 4 were given naringenin (50 mg/kg) daily for the last 30 days of the experiment. KEY FINDINGS: The results showed significantly elevated levels of serum aspartate and alanine transaminases, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, conjugated dienes, lipid hydroperoxides and protein carbonyl content, and significantly lowered activities/levels of antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glutathione-S-transferase, reduced glutathione and vitamins C and E in ethanol-treated rats compared with control rats. Administration of naringenin to rats with ethanol-induced liver injury significantly decreased the levels of serum aspartate and alanine transaminases, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, conjugated dienes, lipid hydroperoxides and protein carbonyl content and significantly elevated the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glutathione-S-transferase, and the levels of reduced glutathione and vitamins C and E in the tissues compared with unsupplemented ethanol-treated rats. Histological changes observed in the liver correlated with the biochemical findings. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together these findings suggest that naringenin has a therapeutic potential in the abatement of ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity.
The recently identified human infections with avian influenza A(H7N9) viruses in China raise important questions regarding possible source and risk to humans. Sequence comparison with an influenza A(H7N7) outbreak in the Netherlands in 2003 and an A(H7N1) epidemic in Italy in 1999-2000 suggests that widespread circulation of A(H7N9) viruses must have occurred in China. The emergence of human adaptation marker PB2 E627K in human A(H7N9) cases parallels that of the fatal A(H7N7) human case in the Netherlands.
Phytochemical investigation of the leaf latex of Aloe trichosantha by preparative TLC gave two closely related anthrones, aloin A/B (1) and aloin-6'-O-acetate A/B (2). The identity of the compounds was established from HRESI-MS, 1H, 13C, DEPT, HMQC and HMBC spectral and chemical data. Whilst aloin A/B occurs in several Aloe species, aloin-6'-O-acetate A/B was isolated for the first time. The isolated compounds inhibited growth of several bacterial and fungal pathogens with minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) from 10 to 400 microg/mL and 800 to 1000 microg/mL, respectively.
BACKGROUND: Polyethylene Glycol 3350 (Miralax(R)) without electrolytes is commonly used for 3-4 days as bowel preparation for colonoscopy in children. One-day preparation has been anecdotally reported to be effective but there are few published prospective studies comparing the safety and efficacy of one-day preparation with that of three-day preparation. This study was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of a one-day bowel preparation with Miralax(R) with that of a three-day preparation for colonoscopy in children. METHODS: We conducted a prospective, randomized controlled trial with children age 2-21 yrs. undergoing elective colonoscopy. Patients were randomly assigned to receive Miralax(R) for either one or three days. Children with known electrolyte disturbances, dehydration, fecal impaction, metabolic or renal disease were excluded. A metabolic panel was monitored before and after bowel preparation. Subjects reported the tolerability and side effects of Miralax(R) via a survey. Effectiveness of the bowel preparation was assessed using a stool diary and a bowel cleansing scale during colonoscopy. RESULTS: 32 subjects were enrolled; 18 received one-day bowel preparation and 14 received 3-day preparation. There were no differences between the groups in efficacy of bowel preparation based on colonoscopic grading or the safety of the preparation. One-day preparation was as well tolerated as three-day preparation. CONCLUSION: Miralax(R) used one day as bowel preparation for elective colonoscopy in children is safe, effective and well tolerated. Physicians should consider offering a one-day option for bowel preparation, which would allow children to miss fewer days of school prior to colonoscopy. TRIAL REGISTRATION: TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02174497. Date of Registration: 02 May, 2014 URL of register: clinicaltrials.gov.
We have recently shown that aldose reductase (AR, EC 1.1.1.21) a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent aldo-keto reductase, known to be involved in oxidative stress-signaling, prevents human colon cancer cell growth in culture as well as in nude mice xenografts. Inhibition of AR also prevents azoxymethane-induced aberrant crypt foci formation in mice. In order to understand the chemopreventive mechanism(s) of AR inhibition in colon cancer, we have investigated the role of AR in the mediation of angiogenic signals in vitro and in vivo models. Our results show that inhibition of AR significantly prevented the VEGF- and FGF -induced proliferation and expression of proliferative marker Ki67 in the human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). Further, AR inhibition or ablation with siRNA prevented the VEGF- and FGF -induced invasion and migration in HUVEC. AR inhibition also prevented the VEGF- and FGF- induced secretion/expression of IL-6, MMP2, MMP9, ICAM, and VCAM. The anti-angiogenic feature of AR inhibition in HUVEC was associated with inactivation of PI3 K/AKT and NF-kappaB (p65) and suppression of VEGF receptor 2 protein levels. Most importantly, matrigel plug model of angiogenesis in rats showed that inhibition of AR prevented infiltration of blood cells, invasion, migration and formation of capillary like structures, and expression of blood vessels markers CD31 and vWF. Thus, our results demonstrate that AR inhibitors could be novel agents to prevent angiogenesis.
Studies on the structure-function relationship of neuropeptide Y (NPY) were undertaken using a combination of in vacuo molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and pharmacological receptor binding and biological activity measurements. Following a conformational search of NPY from which a theoretical structure was determined, a study of the structural and dynamic changes in the region of amino acids 25-36 was performed in a variety of NPY fragments and in the NPY free acid. Results revealed an increased structural change as the fragment size was decreased. Also, the mobility appears to be lowest in the full NPY vs the NPY fragments. Pharmacological measurements showed a decreased receptor binding and biological activity as fragment size decreased. Combination of the two approaches suggests a model where conformational maintenance and low configurational entropy of the 25-36 region of NPY favors both receptor binding and biological activity. Furthermore, the possibility of two receptor interaction modes is suggested. Analysis of the NPY structure suggests the direct importance of the amidated C-terminus, Gln34 and His26, an indirect importance of the Tyr1 sidechain as well as the potential importance of an apparent electric 'dipole' in NPY for receptor binding and biological activity.
The involvement of patients and the public in the development of clinical research initiatives in the UK has been central and is increasing. Whilst initially developed in relation to cancer research and cancer care, this activity has now generalized to all of healthcare research particularly through organizations such as INVOLVE (www.invo.org.uk). Patients and Public Involvement (PPI) has been evaluated and shown to be established across the NHS in the UK. The National Institute for Health Research in England has made PPI central in its development. More recently evidence is accumulating that PPI has significant impact on the quality and delivery of clinical research in healthcare but more work on the evaluation of its impact is required.
In humans, adipose tissue is distributed in subcutaneous abdominal and subcutaneous gluteal depots that comprise a variety of functional differences. Whereas energy storage in gluteal adipose tissue has been shown to mediate a protective effect, an increase of abdominal adipose tissue is associated with metabolic disorders. However, the molecular basis of depot-specific characteristics is not completely understood yet. Using array-based analyses of transcription profiles, we identified a specific set of genes that was differentially expressed between subcutaneous abdominal and gluteal adipose tissue. To investigate the role of epigenetic regulation in depot-specific gene expression, we additionally analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation patterns in abdominal and gluteal depots. By combining both data sets, we identified a highly significant set of depot-specifically expressed genes that appear to be epigenetically regulated. Interestingly, the majority of these genes form part of the homeobox gene family. Moreover, genes involved in fatty acid metabolism were also differentially expressed. Therefore we suppose that changes in gene expression profiles might account for depot-specific differences in lipid composition. Indeed, triglycerides and fatty acids of abdominal adipose tissue were more saturated compared to triglycerides and fatty acids in gluteal adipose tissue. Taken together, our results uncover clear differences between abdominal and gluteal adipose tissue on the gene expression and DNA methylation level as well as in fatty acid composition. Therefore, a detailed molecular characterization of adipose tissue depots will be essential to develop new treatment strategies for metabolic syndrome associated complications.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is an increasingly common cause of hospital acquired pneumonia (HAP) and the second most frequently isolated pathogen from patients who die from HAP. High-risk units for MRSA colonization such as intensive care (ICU's) are the most affected. Multiple risk factors for transmission of MRSA have been identified, including colonization pressure and severity of illness at ICU admission. On the other hand, the most important predisposing factor for MRSA infection is prolonged mechanical ventilation and/or previous antibiotic therapy. Controlling the spread of MRSA remains a major challenge for hospitals. Screening programs, together with contact precautions for cases with MRSA and judicious antimicrobial use are major factors for a successful control. Early appropriate initial therapy is of crucial importance and improves outcome. The standard therapy has been glycopeptides but, in spite of its in vitro activity, mortality in critically ill patients treated with glycopeptides has consistently been reported high, mainly due to their poor lung penetration. Linezolid shows better clinical cure and survival rates, but further studies are needed. As the treatment options for MRSA pneumonia are limited and inadequate, development of more effective drugs is mandatory.
BACKGROUND: Ileocolic resection (ICR) is frequently performed for Crohn's disease; however, disease commonly recurs early in the neoterminal ileum. The aim of this study was to use the IL-10(-/-) mouse to determine the effects of ICR on gut microbiome and immune function and if postoperative fecal microbial transplant (FMT) would improve disease. METHODS: ICR was performed in 129S1/SvlmJ IL10(-/-) mice followed by FMT using stool from wild-type mice. Sham-transplant mice received their own stool. Stool samples were collected on day 0, day 13 (after ICR), and day 27 (after FMT) for whole metagenome shot-gun sequencing. Mucosal-associated bacteria were quantified with quantitative PCR and visualized by fluorescent in situ hybridization. Tissue cytokines were measured with multiplex arrays and mononuclear phagocyte populations by flow cytometry. RESULTS: Surgery induced microbial functional and taxonomic shifts, decreased diversity, and depleted Bacteroidia and Clostridia. ICR mice had reduced colitis but worse ileitis with bacterial overgrowth, increased translocation, and reduction in tissue macrophages. FMT prevented ileitis but restored colitis and allowed for a bloom of gamma-proteobacteria. In the colon, ICR and sham transplant were associated with recruitment of tolerogenic dendritic cells, whereas FMT shifted these immune cell subsets to control profiles along with increasing cytokine levels. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that surgical-induced immune dysfunction and microbial dysbiosis with impaired clearance may be the underlying cause of the early ulcerations found in the ileum of patients with Crohn's disease after ICR. FMT has an immunostimulatory effect on the postoperative intestine, which was beneficial in preventing ileitis, but detrimental in restoring colonic injury after surgery.
Metastasis is the survival-determining factor in urothelial carcinoma (UC) of the urinary bladder. The small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel 3 (SK3) enhances tumor cell invasion in breast cancer and malignant melanoma. Since Edelfosine, a glycerophospholipid with antitumoral properties, effectively inhibits SK3 channel activity, our goal was to evaluate SK3 as a potential molecular target to inhibit the gain of an invasive phenotype in UC. SK3 protein expression was analyzed in 208 tissue samples and UC cell lines. Effects of Edelfosine on SK3 expression and intracellular calcium levels as well as on cell morphology, cell survival and proliferation were assessed using immunoblotting, potentiometric fluorescence microscopy, and clonogenic/cell survival assay; furthermore, we analyzed the effect of Edelfosine and SK3 RNAi knockdown on tumor cell migration and invasion in vitro and in vivo. We found that SK3 is strongly expressed in muscle-invasive UC and in the RT112 cellular tumor model. Higher concentrations of Edelfosine have a strong antitumoral effect on UC cells, while 1 muM effectively inhibits migration/invasion of UC cells in vitro and in vivo comparable to the SK3 knockdown phenotype. Taken together, our results show strong expression of SK3 in muscle-invasive UC, consistent with the postulated role of the protein in tumor cell invasion. Edelfosine is able to effectively inhibit migration and invasion of UC cells in vitro and in vivo in an SK3-dependent way, pointing towards a possible role for Edelfosine as an antiinvasive drug to effectively inhibit UC cell invasion and metastasis.
The effect of 2- pyridine aldoxime methyl chloride (2-PAMCl) and atropine with or without curcumin was investigated in dichlorvos (2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate; DDVP) induced toxicity in rats. Rats were exposed to DDVP (2 mg/kg sub-cutaneously) once daily for the period of 21 days. Post DDVP exposure, rats were further treated with 2-PAMCl (50 mg/kg intramuscular, once daily) + atropine (10 mg/kg, i.m. once daily) with or without curcumin (200 mg/kg; oral; once daily) for further 21 days. We observed a significant increase in lipid peroxidation (LPO), reactive oxygen species (ROS), oxidized glutathione (GSSG), while there was a significant decrease in antioxidant enzymes, brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and 5-hydroxy tryptamine (5-HT) activity on DDVP exposure of rats. These alterations were restored significantly by co-administration of 2-PAMCl + atropine in DDVP exposed rats. Curcumin when co-supplemented with 2-PAMCl + atropine also significantly protected serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and restored brain AChE activity and 5-HT level in animals sub-chronically exposed to DDVP. Histopathological observations along with biochemical changes in rat blood and tissues revealed significant protection offered by 2-PAMCl + atropine against DDVP. The results indicate that DDVP-induced toxicity can be significantly protected by co-administration of 2-PAMCl + atropine individually, however, curcumin co-supplementation with 2-PAMCl + atropine provides more pronounced protection, concerning particularly neurological disorders.
INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study was to study the effect of donepezil on the rate of hippocampal atrophy in prodromal Alzheimer's disease (AD). METHODS: A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled parallel group design using donepezil (10 mg/day) in subjects with suspected prodromal AD. Subjects underwent two brain magnetic resonance imaging scans (baseline and final visit). The primary efficacy outcome was the annualized percentage change (APC) of total hippocampal volume (left + right) measured by an automated segmentation method. RESULTS: Two-hundred and sixteen only subjects were randomized across 28 French expert clinical sites. In the per protocol population (placebo = 92 and donepezil = 82), the donepezil group exhibited a significant reduced rate of hippocampal atrophy (APC = -1.89%) compared with the placebo group (APC = -3.47%), P < .001. There was no significant difference in neuropsychological performance between treatment groups. DISCUSSION: A 45% reduction of rate of hippocampal atrophy was observed in prodromal AD following 1 year of treatment with donepezil compared with placebo.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex (rTMS) can be used to modify motor cortical excitability in human subjects. At stimulus intensities near to or above resting motor threshold, low-frequency rTMS (approximately 1 Hz) decreases motor cortical excitability, whereas high-frequency rTMS (5-20 Hz) can increase excitability. We investigated the effect of 10 min of intermittent rTMS on motor cortical excitability in normal subjects at two frequencies (2 or 6 Hz). Three low intensities of stimulation (70, 80, and 90% of active motor threshold) and sham stimulation were used. The number of stimuli were matched between conditions. Motor cortical excitability was investigated by measurement of the motor-evoked potential (MEP) evoked by single magnetic stimuli in the relaxed first dorsal interosseus muscle. The intensity of the single stimuli was set to evoke baseline MEPs of approximately 1 mV in amplitude. Both 2- and 6-Hz stimulation, at 80% of active motor threshold, reduced the magnitude of MEPs for approximately 30 min (P < 0.05). MEPs returned to baseline values after a weak voluntary contraction. Stimulation at 70 and 90% of active motor threshold and sham stimulation did not induce a significant group effect on MEP magnitude. However, the intersubject response to rTMS at 90% of active motor threshold was highly variable, with some subjects showing significant MEP facilitation and others inhibition. These results suggest that, at low stimulus intensities, the intensity of stimulation may be as important as frequency in determining the effect of rTMS on motor cortical excitability.
Previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) research on action observation has emphasized the role of putative mirror neuron areas such as Broca's area, ventral premotor cortex, and the inferior parietal lobule. However, recent evidence suggests action observation involves many distributed cortical regions, including dorsal premotor and superior parietal cortex. How these different regions relate to traditional mirror neuron areas, and whether traditional mirror neuron areas play a special role in action representation, is unclear. Here we use multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) to show that action representations, including observation, imagery, and execution of reaching movements: (1) are distributed across both dorsal (superior) and ventral (inferior) premotor and parietal areas; (2) can be decoded from areas that are jointly activated by observation, execution, and imagery of reaching movements, even in cases of equal-amplitude blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses; and (3) can be equally accurately classified from either posterior parietal or frontal (premotor and inferior frontal) regions. These results challenge the presumed dominance of traditional mirror neuron areas such as Broca's area in action observation and action representation more generally. Unlike traditional univariate fMRI analyses, MVPA was able to discriminate between imagined and observed movements from previously indistinguishable BOLD activations in commonly activated regions, suggesting finer-grained distributed patterns of activation.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) with 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin for intractable advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may have survival benefits. We aimed to determine the efficacy and safety of HAIC for advanced HCC as first-line therapy. METHODS: A total of 54 patients who received only HAIC with 5-fluorouracil (750 mg/m(2) on days 1-4) and cisplatin (25 mg/m(2) on days 1-4) for advanced HCC from Jan. 2009 to Dec. 2011 were selected. According to Child-Pugh class, the overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), and adverse events after HAIC were investigated retrospectively. RESULTS: Median OS and PFS between the Child-Pugh A group (n=24) and the Child-Pugh B/C group (n=30) were 8.7 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 4.7-12.7) vs. 3.7 months (95% CI: 2.0-5.3), and 7.1 (95% CI: 3.8-10.4) vs. 3.6 months (95% CI: 2.0-5.2), respectively. Although median OS and PFS were not statistically significant between the two groups (P=0.079, P=0.196), the Child-Pugh class B/C tended to influence poor OS. Serious adverse events >/= grade 3 occurred frequently in both groups (83.3 vs. 96.7%, P=0.159). Responders (22.2%, complete or partial response) significantly differed in median OS, compared to non-responders (13.1 vs. 4.4 months, P=0.019). Achievement of complete or partial response was an independent prognostic factor of OS (hazard ratio: 0.4, 95% CI: 0.2-0.8, P=0.011). CONCLUSIONS: Achievement of response after HAIC provide a survival benefit in patients with advanced HCC, but HAIC should be administered cautiously in patients with Child-Pugh class B/C, because of a relatively low survival and high incidence of serious adverse events.
This study investigated the colonization of slime-producing coagulase-negative Staphylococcus (CoNS) in 80 patient wards in Turkey (40 vinyl and 40 ceramic tile floors). A total of 480 samples that included 557 CoNS isolates were obtained. Slime production was investigated with the Christensen method and methicillin-susceptibility was tested by the disk-diffusion method. There was a significant difference in the percentage of slime-producing CoNS isolates on vinyl (12.4%) versus ceramic tile flooring (4.4%). From vinyl flooring, the percentage of slime producing methicillin-resistant CoNS (MRCoNS) (8.9%) was significantly higher than for methicillin-sensitive CoNS (MSCoNS) (3.6%), whereas there was no difference from ceramic tile flooring (2.5% MRCoNS versus 1.8% MSCoNS). The most commonly isolated slime-producing CoNS species was S. epidermidis on both types of flooring. It is concluded that vinyl flooring seems to be a more suitable colonization surface for slime-producing CoNS than ceramic tile floors. Further studies are needed to investigate bacterial strains colonized on flooring materials, which are potential pathogens for nosocomial infections.
This distribution of choline acetyltransferase (CHAT) immunoreactivity (CHAT-I) in the rat lower brain stem was analyzed using a highly sensitive avidin-biotin immunocytochemical method and 3-amino-9-ethyl-carbazole visualization. A much wider and more abundant distribution of CHAT-I structures in the lower brain stem was demonstrated than in earlier studies. The following areas were newly identified as areas rich in CHAT-I fibers: the interpeduncular nucleus, medial geniculate body, central gray matter of pons, pontine nucleus, parabigeminal nucleus, dorsal tegmental nucleus of Gudden, lateral trapezoid nucleus, inferior colliculus, dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei, medial and lateral vestibular nuclei, reticular formation of medulla oblongata, and gelatinosa of caudal trigeminal spinal tract nucleus. In addition to the areas in which they have been known to exist, CHAT-I perikarya were found in the caudal portion of substantia nigra pars reticulata, the area between trigeminal motor nucleus and superior olivary nucleus, the medial and spinal vestibular nucleus, prepositus hypoglossal nucleus, raphe magnus and obscurus, ventromedial portion of solitary tract nucleus and its just ventral reticular formation, and caudal trigeminal spinal tract nucleus.
Evidence showing the ectopic re-expression of cell cycle-related proteins in specific vulnerable neuronal populations in Alzheimer disease led us to formulate the hypothesis that neurodegeneration, like cancer, is a disease of inappropriate cell cycle control. To test this notion, we used adenoviral-mediated expression of c-myc and ras oncogenes to drive postmitotic primary cortical neurons into the cell cycle. Cell cycle re-entry in neurons was associated with increased DNA content, as determined using BrdU and DAPI, and the re-expression of cyclin B1, a marker for the G2/M phase of the cell cycle. Importantly, we also found that cell cycle re-entry in primary neurons leads to tau phosphorylation and conformational changes similar to that seen in Alzheimer disease. This study establishes that the cell cycle can be instigated in normally quiescent neuronal cells and results in a phenotype that shares features of degenerative neurons in Alzheimer disease. As such, our neuronal cell model may be extremely valuable for the development of novel therapeutic strategies.
Cell-selective glucocorticoid receptor (GR) binding to distal regulatory elements is associated with cell type-specific regions of locally accessible chromatin. These regions can either pre-exist in chromatin (pre-programmed) or be induced by the receptor (de novo). Mechanisms that create and maintain these sites are not well understood. We observe a global enrichment of CpG density for pre-programmed elements, and implicate their demethylated state in the maintenance of open chromatin in a tissue-specific manner. In contrast, sites that are actively opened by GR (de novo) are characterized by low CpG density, and form a unique class of enhancers devoid of suppressive effect of agglomerated methyl-cytosines. Furthermore, treatment with glucocorticoids induces rapid changes in methylation levels at selected CpGs within de novo sites. Finally, we identify GR-binding elements with CpGs at critical positions, and show that methylation can affect GR-DNA interactions in vitro. The findings present a unique link between tissue-specific chromatin accessibility, DNA methylation and transcription factor binding and show that DNA methylation can be an integral component of gene regulation by nuclear receptors.
Mitochondrial ADP transport may represent a convergence point unifying two prominent working models for the development of insulin resistance, as reactive lipids (specifically palmitoyl-CoA [P-CoA]) can inhibit ADP transport and subsequently increase mitochondrial reactive oxygen species emissions. In the current study, we aimed to determine if exercise training in humans diminished P-CoA attenuation of mitochondrial ADP respiratory sensitivity. Six weeks of exercise training increased whole-body glucose homeostasis and skeletal muscle Akt signaling and reduced markers of oxidative stress without reducing maximal mitochondrial H2O2 emissions. To ascertain if enhanced mitochondrial ADP transport contributed to the improvement in the in vivo oxidative state, we determined mitochondrial ADP sensitivity in the presence and absence of P-CoA. In the absence of P-CoA, exercise training reduced mitochondrial ADP sensitivity. In contrast, exercise training increased mitochondrial ADP sensitivity with P-CoA present. We further show that P-CoA noncompetitively inhibits mitochondrial ADP transport and the ability of ADP to attenuate mitochondrial H2O2 emission. Altogether, the current data provide a potential mechanism for how P-CoA contributes to insulin resistance and highlight the ability of exercise training to diminish P-CoA attenuation in mitochondrial ADP transport.
Glycoprotein D (gD) is a virion envelope component of herpes simplex virus types 1 (HSV-1) and 2 (HSV-2) which plays an important role in viral infection and pathogenesis. Previously, anti-gD monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) were arranged into groups which recognize distinct type-common and type-specific sites on HSV-1 gD (gD-1) and HSV-2 gD (gD-2). Several groups recognize discontinuous epitopes which are dependent on tertiary structure. Three groups, VII, II, and V, recognize continuous epitopes present in both native and denatured gD. Previously, group II consisted of a single MAb, DL6, whose epitope was localized between amino acids 268 and 287. In the study reported here, we extended our analysis of the antigenic structure of gD, concentrating on continuous epitopes. The DL6 epitope was localized with greater precision to residues 272 to 279. Four additional MAbs including BD78 were identified, each of which recognizes an epitope within residues 264 to 275. BD78 and DL6 blocked each other in binding to gD. In addition, a mutant form of gD was constructed in which the proline at 273 was replaced by serine. This change removes a predicted beta turn in gD. Neither antibody reacted with this mutant, indicating that the BD78 and DL6 epitopes overlap and constitute an antigenic site (site II) within residues 264 to 279. A separate antigenic site (site XI) was recognized by MAb BD66 (residues 284 to 301). This site was only six amino acids downstream of site II, but was distinct as demonstrated by blocking studies. Synthetic peptides mimicking these and other regions of gD were screened with polyclonal antisera to native gD-1 or gD-2. The results indicate that sites II, V, VII, and XI, as well as the carboxy terminus, are the major continuous antigenic determinants on gD. In addition, the results show that the region from residues 264 through 369, except the transmembrane anchor, contains a series of continuous epitopes.
A complex dielectric constant for double-strand DNA molecules with a length of not greater than 120 base pairs in an aqueous solution containing 30 mM NaCl was systematically measured as a function of chain length in such a way that experimental uncertainties associated with the molecular-weight distribution of specimens were virtually excluded. In contrast to the past experimental and theoretical studies for much longer DNA molecules, both the molar specific dielectric increment and the relaxation time are proportional to the chain length. These scaling rules cannot be accounted for by any theory so far proposed that gives analytical expressions for those two quantities in the long-chain limit.
The effect of nine different oils was evaluated on the growth of Aspergillus parasiticus and Fusarium moniliforme. The experimental design to examine the inhibition of mycotoxins involved the incorporation of each of seven oils into broth and patty cultures. The fungal mycotoxin was identified by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Clove oil (eugenol) was the most inhibitory to the growth of A. parasiticus and F. moniliforme, followed by cinnamon (cinnamic aldehyde), oregano (thymol and carvacol) and mace oils (myristin). Neem and eucalyptus oil (cineole) did not affect fungal growth. The feasibility of implementing the results of this study to control mycotoxin toxicity was examined by costoring whole and ground cloves with mycotoxin-infected grain. Addition of both whole and ground cloves markedly reduced the aflatoxin contamination of the grain. These results clearly suggest that commonly occurring mycotoxigenic fungi can be controlled with clove oil (eugenol), thus spice oil successfully inhibited the growth of A. parasiticus and F. moniliforme, regulated the production of fumonisins. and prevented the formation of aflatoxins. The social implication of this finding is that rural communities can prevent the formation of fungal toxins in contaminated grain by simple measures.
We tested the ability of saturated n-monocarboxylic acids ranging from eight to 12 carbons in length to self-assemble into vesicles, and determined the minimal concentrations and chain lengths necessary to form stable bilayer membranes. Under defined conditions of pH and concentrations exceeding 150 mM, an unbranched monocarboxylic acid as short as eight carbons in length (n-octanoic acid) assembled into vesicular structures. Nonanoic acid (85 mM) formed stable vesicles at pH 7.0, the pK of the acid in bilayers, and was chosen for further testing. At pH 6 and below, the vesicles were unstable and the acid was present as droplets. At pH ranges of 8 and above clear solutions of micelles formed. However, addition of small amounts of an alcohol (nonanol) markedly stabilized the bilayers, and vesicles were present at significantly lower concentrations (approximately 20 mM) at pH ranges up to 11. The formation of vesicles near the pK(a) of the acids can be explained by the formation of stable RCOO(-)...HOOCR hydrogen bond networks in the presence of both ionized and neutral acid functions. Similarly, the effects of alcohols at high pH suggests the formation of stable RCOO(-)...HOR hydrogen bond networks when neutral RCOOH groups are absent. The vesicles provided a selective permeability barrier, as indicated by osmotic activity and ionic dye capture, and could encapsulate macromolecules such as DNA and a protein. When catalase was encapsulated in vesicles of decanoic acid and decanol, the enzyme was protected from degradation by protease, and could act as a catalyst for its substrate, hydrogen peroxide, which readily diffused across the membrane. We conclude that membranous vesicles produced by mixed short chain monocarboxylic acids and alcohols are useful models for testing the limits of stabilizing hydrophobic effects in membranes and for prebiotic membrane formation.
Thalamocortical slices are widely used to study thalamocortical relationships and absence epilepsy. However, it is still not known whether (1) intracortical synaptic transmission, in particular neocortical paired-pulse depression (PPD), is maintained in these slices and (2) whether PPD is altered in the Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rat from Strasbourg (GAERS, a model of absence epilepsy for which cortico-thalamic loops are involved). Furthermore, while the involvement of gap junctions (GJ) in the mechanisms leading to epileptiform discharges has been intensively studied, little is known about their effect on intracortical transmission. We first studied intracortical connection efficacy and PPD in thalamocortical slices from GAERS and non-epileptic rats (NER). We then investigated the effects of GJ blockers (carbenoxolone and quinidine) on intracortical response following single or paired-pulse stimulations in coronal slices from Wistar rats. We show that the efficacy of intracortical connections is not impaired in GAERS. We also show that neocortical PPD is preserved in thalamocortical slices of NER, but that its efficacy is strongly decreased in GAERS. Moreover, a NMDA antagonist strongly reduced the PPD in NER but had no effect in GAERS. Cortical responses to white matter stimulation were not modified by quinidine or carbenoxolone in coronal slices of Wistar rats. PPD was recorded in these slices and was decreased by carbenoxolone but not by quinidine. We hypothesize that the decrease of PPD observed in GAERS might be due to a decrease in function of (1) NMDA receptors and/or (2) astrocytic GJ's.
The exact effect of probiotics on epithelial barrier function is not well understood. The aims of this study were to evaluate cytokine-induced epithelial barrier dysfunction in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) and to study the role of probiotics in the prevention of epithelial barrier dysfunction. Caco-2 cells grown on transwell chambers were stimulated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha or interferon (IFN)-gamma basolaterally. Probiotic, Lactobacillus casei, was added 1 h before cytokine stimulation. MAPK inhibitors were added 15 min before L. casei stimulation. The electrical resistance and paracellular permeability of Caco-2 monolayers were measured. Distribution of zonula occludens (ZO)-1 protein was assessed by immunofluorescence, and Western blot analyses for ZO-1, p-Akt, and toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 were performed. Both TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma stimulation on Caco-2 cells decreased transepithelial resistance (TER), increased epithelial permeability, and decreased ZO-1 expression of Caco-2 cells. In contrast, pretreatment of L. casei reversed the cytokine-induced dysfunction of TER, epithelial permeability, and ZO-1 expression. Reversal of cytokine-induced dysfunction of TER and intestinal permeability by L. casei was abrogated with MAPK inhibitor treatment. Lactobacillus casei stimulation on Caco-2 cells increased TLR2 and p-Akt expression. Probiotic, L. casei, prevents cytokine-induced epithelial barrier dysfunctions in IECs.
BACKGROUND: Concurrent study of secretomic and glycoproteomic profiles in cancer cell lines represents an excellent approach for investigating cancer progression and identifying novel biomarker candidates. In this study, we performed a comparative secretomic and N-glycoprotein profiling from the secretions of normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMEpC) and the MCF-7 human breast cancer cell line. METHOD: We analyzed these cell lines using a combined methodology involving glycan-binding lectins and two-dimensional electrophoresis and identified several differentially secreted factors, including osteonectin and haptoglobin. RESULT: Notably, comparative analyses also revealed that MCF-7 cells produced differentially N-glycosylated forms of haptoglobin. CONCLUSION: The present data suggested that osteonectin and haptoglobin might have potential to be served as potential biomarkers for breast cancer. However, further investigation is needed to validate the findings.
Integration host factor (IHF) is a small heterodimeric protein that specifically binds to DNA and functions as an architectural factor in many cellular processes in prokaryotes. Here, we report the crystal structure of IHF complexed with 35 bp of DNA. The DNA is wrapped around the protein and bent by >160 degrees, thus reversing the direction of the helix axis within a very short distance. Much of the bending occurs at two large kinks where the base stacking is interrupted by intercalation of a proline residue. IHF contacts the DNA exclusively via the phosphodiester backbone and the minor groove and relies heavily on indirect readout to recognize its binding sequence. One such readout involves a six-base A tract, providing evidence for the importance of a narrow minor groove.
Prominent intensely fluorescent satellites on one chromosome 22 seem to have been transferred, during gametogenesis of a male carrier of a balanced 10/22 translocation, from the normal 22 to the translocated 22 in his daughter and son, both carriers of the translocation. Prenatal diagnosis was performed in the carrier daughter and in the chromosomally normal female foetus the satellites have jumped back to one normal chromosome 22. The phenomenon is probably due to exchanges between the short arms of chromosome 22 at meiotic pairing in the father and in his daughter. These observations give a warning for caution in the use of marker variants for paternity tests and prenatal diagnosis.
Resolving power is a quantitative measure of the ability of an electrophoretic system to separate DNA (and other) molecules of similar size. It is a dimensionless quantity, and hence facilitates comparison of the performance of electrophoretic systems that operate very differently. Resolving power can be determined as a function of molecular length from experimental data consisting of a series of completely resolved bands on a gel or blot; closely spaced bands are not required. We discuss factors such as the mass of DNA in a particular band and the spatial resolution of the system used to image the distribution of DNA on a gel or blot that, while not an intrinsic part of the electrophoretic system, may influence the observed resolving power. We derive an empirical global dispersion function that applies both to images of gels obtained after a fixed time of electrophoresis of all the samples and to images obtained as each species reaches a detector located at a fixed distance from the starting well. We use this dispersion function to show that the improvement in resolving power produced by extending the time or distance of electrophoresis in a static, uniform electric field asymptotically approaches a limiting value that is a function of the length of the DNA. When plotted as a function of molecular length, this limiting value defines an envelope that characterizes the intrinsic limits of performance of a particular electrophoretic system (e.g., electric field strength, gel type and concentration, buffer, temperature). Comparing the resolving power of static field agarose gel electrophoresis as routinely practiced for separating DNA molecules from 10(3) to 10(5) bp long with other electrophoretic schemes suggests that significant improvements should be achievable.
We examined the influence of caffeine on the proliferation and apoptosis of beta cells cultured in vitro in the presence of the free fatty acid palmitic acid (PA). Different concentrations of caffeine (1-100 mM) and free fatty PA were added to cultured beta cells. The MTT assay was used to analyze cell proliferative activity; flow cytometry was used to measure apoptosis and calculate the apoptosis rate. Compared with the blank control group, cells cultured with 500 mM PA for 24, 48, 72, and 96 h showed inhibition of pancreatic beta cell proliferative activity. In the 10 and 25 mM caffeine groups cultured for 48, 72, and 96 h, beta cell proliferative activity was much higher than that in the 500 mM PA group. The apoptosis rate in the 500 mM PA group was 40.55 +/- 20.33%, which was higher than that in the blank control group. The apoptosis rates in the 10 and 25 mM caffeine group and the PA group were 19.12 +/- 10.56 and 20.97 +/- 9.75%, respectively, which was lower than that in the 500 mM PA group. At some concentrations, caffeine can improve free fatty PA levels and guide pancreatic beta cell proliferation inhibition and cell apoptosis.
Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) produces a disease in cattle characterized by vesicular lesions and a persistent infection with asymptomatic low-level production of virus in pharyngeal tissues. Here we describe the establishment of a persistently infected primary cell culture derived from bovine pharynx tissue (PBPT) infected with FMDV serotype O1 Manisa, where surviving cells were serially passed until a persistently infected culture was generated. Characterization of the persistent virus demonstrated changes in its plaque size, ability to grow in different cell lines, and change in the use of integrins as receptors, when compared with the parental virus. These results demonstrate the establishment of persistently infected PBPT cell cultures where co-adaptation has taken place between the virus and host cells. This in vitro model for FMDV persistence may help further understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the cattle carrier state.
To gain some insight whether there is an absolute requirement for the serine 282 to yield a functional fatty acid elongase 1 condensing enzyme we have introduced point mutations in the FAE1 coding sequence which led to the substitution of serine 282 with several aliphatic or aromatic amino acids. The mutated FAE1 polypeptides were expressed in yeast. Gas chromatography analyses of the fatty acid methyl esters from yeast lysates and fatty acid elongase activity assays demonstrated that there is not an absolute requirement for serine at position 282 to yield a functional FAE1 condensing enzyme.
OBJECTIVE: An elevated homocysteine level has been reported for patients with schizophrenia and depression. We investigated the frequency of the common C667 T variant of the enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase in controls and patients of Chinese descent. METHODS: Controls with no history of mental disorder and patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar and unipolar disorders were recruited. Genomic DNA from all were genotyped for the C667 T polymorphism by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. RESULTS: There was no significant difference in genotype distributions or allele frequencies between controls and any of the diagnostic groups, although the frequency of the T allele was higher for all diagnostic groups and for both the male and female genders. When data was analyzed with the minor T allele as dominant, there was an excess of the T-containing genotypes in each of the patient groups compared with controls. For the difference between controls and all cases combined it almost reached statistical significance (P=0.077), with an odds ratio of 1.46 (95% confidence interval, 0.96-2.22). CONCLUSIONS: Although there was no significant association as measured by the P value, the odds ratio and confidence interval provided some evidence of increased risk for individuals with the T-containing genotypes. A minor role for this polymorphism in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and depression could not be ruled out and would warrant further investigation.
Payers for healthcare increasingly require evidence about health outcomes of medical interventions. Outcomes research uses various study designs to provide such evidence, with the highest level of evidence provided by randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Among published studies of biomarkers, however, relatively few determine the relationship of biomarker testing to outcomes, and only a small fraction of those studies are RCTs, and fewer still follow the CONSORT standards for reporting of trials. Outcomes studies of biomarkers are difficult to carry out. During an outcomes study, clinicians may be expected to use the results of the test (e.g., troponin) along with other information (e.g., symptoms of an acute coronary syndrome) to decide about use of another intervention (such as cardiac catheterization) that is hoped to improve an outcome (e.g., mortality rate) at some time in the future. Studies of diagnostic tests frequently lack evidence that test results were acted upon at all, much less according to a defined protocol. The potential for a biomarker to improve outcomes depends upon a wide range of variables. These variables include the diagnostic accuracy of the test and the effectiveness of the therapeutic intervention, both of which will, predictably, vary with the patient population studied. Thus outcomes studies performed in one patient population leave unanswered questions regarding outcomes in other populations. The questions are infinite, but resources are finite. Simulation modelling studies are attractive as an adjunct to patient studies to address multiple patient variables and multiple treatment approaches without the expense of multiple clinical studies.
BACKGROUND: A study was undertaken to analyse the potential prognostic value of the immunohistochemical expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and p27 in 29 malignant mesotheliomas already screened for the expression of p21 and p53. METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the expression of COX-2 and p27. The correlation with survival of these factors and of p21 and p53 expression was assessed by univariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: A positive statistically significant correlation was found between p27 and p21 expression (p<0.0001), but there was a negative correlation between COX-2 expression and both p27 (p = 0.001) and p21 (p<0.0001). No statistically significant correlation was recorded between p53 and all the other immunohistochemical parameters. Univariate analysis showed that overall survival was strongly influenced by p21, p27, and COX-2 expression, but multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that the only immunohistochemical parameter to influence overall survival of patients with mesothelioma was COX-2. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that COX-2 expression may be a useful prognostic parameter for mesothelioma.
Non-thermal plasma generated under atmospheric pressure produces a mixture of chemically reactive molecules and has been developed for a number of biomedical applications. Recently, plasma jet has been proposed as novel cancer therapies based on the observation that free radicals generated by plasma jet induce mitochondria-mediated apoptotic cell death. We show here that air plasma jet induces DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in yeast chromosomes leading to genomic instability and loss of viability, which are alleviated by Rad51, the yeast homolog of Escherichiacoli RecA recombinase, through DNA damage repair by a homologous recombination (HR) process. Hypersensitivity of rad51 mutant to air plasma was not restored by antioxidant treatment unlike sod1 mutant that was highly sensitive to reactive oxygen species (ROS) challenge, suggesting that plasma jet induces DSB-mediated cell death independent of ROS generation. These results may provide a new insight into the mechanism of air plasma jet-induced cell death.
The presence and localization of the calcium-binding protein recoverin, initially found in photoreceptors of the bovine eye, were immunochemically studied in retina of the new Pleurodeles waltl. Polyclonal monospecific antibodies against recoverin were raised and the methods of immunoblotting and indirect immunofluorescence were used. A protein with an apparent molecular mass of 26 kDa was found in the retina extract, which was specifically stained by the antibodies against recoverin. Localization of recoverin was studied on the retina sections: an intense reaction was found in the inner segments and a weak reaction was found in the basal part of the outer segments of photoreceptors and in Landolt's clubs of displaced bipolars. The results we obtained suggest for the first time the presence of recoverin in the retina of a representative of the Urodeles and indicate to interspecific conservativeness of this protein and differences of its localization in the retina photoreceptors in different species. The data obtained open a possibility of using recoverin as a marker protein of photoreceptors and displaced bipolars in studied of retina regeneration in newts.
BACKGROUND: Metal working fluids (MWF) constitute a significant respiratory hazard, although symptoms experienced by workers are often poorly investigated and attributed. AIMS: A single possible case of extrinsic allergic alveolitis (EAA) led to a formal workplace investigation. It was clear that other exposed workers were affected. The aim of this study was to accurately quantify the clinical, immunological and microbiological findings in MWF workers following presentation of a sentinel case. METHODS: Eleven of 21 individuals participated; eight were assessed by symptom questionnaire, spirometry and serology and three workers provided blood samples only. The microbes cultured from MWF and air samples were used to determine the presence of precipitating antibodies. RESULTS: Work-related respiratory symptoms were reported in six of eight individuals questioned, two of these complaining of 'flu-like' symptoms. Personal breathing zone measures identified 2.1 x 10(3) to 1.1 x 10(5) colony-forming units/m3 air (CFU/m3). Pseudomonas fluorescens was isolated from air samples. Despite visible 'fungal' contamination of MWF, airborne fungi were detectable in only one sample, at 486 CFU/m3 air. MWF cultured Eurotium sp., Fusarium sp. and Pseudomonas sp. Precipitating IgG antibodies to Pseudomonas sp. were identified in 4/11 and to an extract of the MWF in 3/11. IgG to Pseudomonas was elevated in the two individuals who had the strongest precipitating bands to Pseudomonas sp. CONCLUSIONS: Workplaces with possible EAA must be investigated promptly, thus allowing clinical assessment to be contemporary to exposures and accurate microbiological profiling included to identify the likely cause.
Although molecular biology studies indicate the presence of adenosine A(2A) receptors in the rat hippocampus, the pharmacological characterization of adenosine A(2A) receptor binding and of its putative facilitatory effects has revealed features essentially different from these found for adenosine A(2A) receptors in most preparations. We now confirmed that activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors with 2-[4-(2-p-carboxyethyl)phenylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680, 1-30 nM) or 2-hexynyl-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (HENECA, 3-100 nM) facilitated the veratridine-evoked [3H]acetylcholine release from hippocampal synaptosomes with a maximal effect of 14+/-2% and 16+/-2%, respectively. These effects were prevented by the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists, 4-(2-[7-amino-2-[2-furyl][1,2,4]-triazolo[2,3a][1,3,5]triazin-5-yl-amino]ethyl)ph enol (ZM 241385, 20 nM) and 5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrim idine (SCH 58261, 20 nM), but not by the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 20 nM). Adenosine A(2A) receptors may activate adenylate cyclase and protein kinase A since CGS 21680 (10 nM) facilitation of [3H]acetylcholine release was occluded by 8-bromo-cAMP (0.5 mM) and forskolin (10 microM) and prevented by H-89 (1 microM), but unaffected by phorbol-12,13-didecanoate (250 nM) or bisindolylmaleimide I (1 microM). The existence of adenosine A(2A) receptors in hippocampal nerve terminals was further confirmed by a Western blot immunoreactivity qualitatively identical to that found in the striatum. This constitutes the first pharmacological identification of canonical adenosine A(2A) receptors coupling to the expected cAMP/protein kinase A pathway in the hippocampus with the expected immunoreactivity.
The process of introducing the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine aimed at teenage girls has not been entirely without controversy in Spain. This vaccine was originally hyped as a preventive measure in the fight against cervical cancer but the resulting euphoria was tempered by a message calling for evidence. During administration of the second dose of the vaccine in February 2009, an unexpected turn of events attracted vast media coverage when two teenagers experienced adverse effects after immunization in Valencia (Spain). This study analyzes the scope and content of news items on HPV, immunization and cervical cancer published between 2006 and 2011 in two widely disseminated regional newspapers in Valencia. We also discuss the extent to which the messages transmitted may have influenced acceptability of the vaccine.
OBJECTIVE: Experimental evidence indicates that maternal undernutrition during gestation may program hypertension in the offspring. We investigated whether maternal undernutrition leads to increased arterial stiffness. METHODS: We measured carotid artery lumen diameter (LD), distensibility (DC), stiffness (beta), and compliance (CC) by M-mode ultrasound in 673 individuals, aged 56-61 years, who had been born as term singletons around the time of the 1944-45 Dutch famine. RESULTS: Maternal famine exposure had no effect on any of the measures of carotid size or stiffness in the offspring. Low maternal weight at the end of pregnancy and low birth weight were associated with decreased LD (0.01 mm/kg maternal weight, sex-adjusted P < 0.001; 0.1 mm/kg birth weight, sex-adjusted P = 0.08) and CC (0.002 mm2/kPa per kg maternal weight, sex-adjusted P = 0.001; 0.03 mm2/kPa per kg birth weight, sex-adjusted P = 0.03), but neither was associated with increased beta, or decreased DC. These effects were not attenuated by adjusting for maternal protein/carbohydrate ratio in the third trimester. The association of low birth weight with increased CC diminished after adjusting for maternal weight. The association of maternal weight with CC was smaller when adjusted for LD. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that small maternal size, not poor maternal diet, in late gestation programs decreased arterial compliance in the adult offspring by affecting vessel size rather than vessel wall stiffness.
Current systems for the evaluation of trauma severity are tedious and difficult to apply in an actual emergency setting. We aimed to develop and assess the accuracy of a more efficient severity evaluation system, termed the Ugawa classification, using brain-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) measurement and the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Two-hundred trauma patients were divided into 2 groups using an eGFR cut-off value of 90ml/min/1.73m2 as an indicator of normal renal function and 2 additional groups according to whether the BNP values were greater or less than the age in years. This resulted in 4 subject groups with different combinations of eGFR and BNP. The mean SOFA score, injury severity scores (ISS), trauma and injury severity scores (TRISS), and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) scores of the groups were compared by Kruskal-Wallis test, and the mortality rate after 90 days was calculated. Significant intergroup differences were found in SOFA scores, ISS scores, and APACHE II-predicted mortality rates. Although no significant differences were found in the mortality rate after 90 days or TRISS-predicted mortality rate among the 4 groups, there was a trend toward increasing trauma severity from group 1 to 4. Thus, the Ugawa classification is as accurate as existing systems, has greater efficiency, and is user-friendly.
A rare case of bovine aortic arch aneurysm accompanied by patent ductus Botalli aneurysm was treated using an off-pump hybrid procedure including supraaortic debranching combined with aortic stent grafting and oversewing of pulmonary artery end of the aneurysm. Postoperative computed tomography angiography showed persistent perfusion of the ductus Botalli aneurysm from pulmonary artery, which was successfully closed with an Amplatzer duct occluder. Twenty-two months of follow-up showed good general state of the patient's health status. This less invasive procedure is an alternative to aortic replacement under circulatory arrest and may be the only salvage option for patients in poor general condition.
The salivary androgen-binding proteins (ABPs) are members of the secretoglobin gene family present in mammals. Each ABP is a heterodimer assembled as an ABPA subunit encoded by an Abpa gene and linked by disulfide bridges to an ABPBG subunit encoded by an Abpbg gene. The ABP dimers are secreted into the saliva of mice and then transferred to the pelage after grooming and subsequently to the environment allowing an animal to mark territory with a biochemical signal. The putative role of the mouse salivary ABPs is that of pheromones mediating mate selection resulting in assortative mating in the Mus musculus species complex. We focused on comparing patterns of molecular evolution between the Abpa genes expressed in the submaxillary glands of species of New World and Old World muroids. We found that in both sets of rodents the Abpa genes expressed in the submaxillary glands appear to be evolving under a similar evolutionary regime, with relatively high nonsynonymous substitution rates, suggesting that ABP might play a similar biological role in both systems. Thus, ABP could be involved with mate recognition and species isolation in New World as well as Old World muroids.
An analysis of 242 patients with a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has shown that 65 patients without a hepatitis B virus (HBV), alcohol abuse, or a transfusion history and 17 posttransfusion patients had a mean death age of 65.5 +/- 10.2 and 62.1 +/- 8.4 years respectively. The average age of 65 patients was 8.5 years older than those with a HBV and without a alcohol abuse history. Of 17 patients, 3 with a HBV had a mean death age of 55.3 +/- 10.8 years and the interval time from transfusion to a HCC was significantly shorter than in other post-transfusion patients.
BACKGROUND: In recent years, important advances have been made in the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, and new strategies have been put forward for its treatment. The purpose of this study was to analyze the cytomorphometric changes and glycogen content in exfoliated cells of oral mucosa as an adjunct in the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus. METHOD: The smears were taken from buccal mucosa of 30 type 2 diabetes mellitus patients (study group) and 30 healthy individuals (control group). One smear was stained with rapid Papanicolaou stain and the other with periodic acid Schiff stain (PAS). In Papanicolaou stain smears, the nuclear area, cytoplasmic area and cytoplasmic to nuclear ratio were evaluated from 50 cells in each smear using Image analysis software (Q Win Standard, Leica) and a research microscope (DM 2500, Leica). PAS-stained smears were analyzed for the presence of glycogen in exfoliated cells. RESULTS: The results showed that the mean nuclear area was significantly higher (p < 0.001) in the study group whereas the mean cytoplasmic area did not exhibit a statistically significant difference (p > 0.001). The mean cytoplasmic to nuclear ratio was significantly lower in the study group (p < 0.001). There was a significant increase in the count of PAS-positive exfoliated cells of the study group as compared with the control group (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: The results associated with clinical observations suggest that type 2 diabetes mellitus can produce morphologic and functional alterations in oral epithelial cells, detectable by microscopic and cytomorphometric analysis using exfoliative cytology which can be used in the diagnosis of the disease.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are an emerging family of innate hematopoietic cells producing inflammatory cytokines and involved in the pathogenesis of several immune-mediated diseases. The aim of this study was to characterize the tissue distribution of ILCs in celiac disease (CD), a gluten-driven enteropathy, and analyze their role in gut tissue damage. ILC subpopulations were analyzed in lamina propria mononuclear cells (LPMCs) isolated from duodenal biopsies of CD patients and healthy controls (CTR) and jejunal specimens of patients undergoing gastro-intestinal bypass by flow cytometry. Cytokines and Toll-like receptors (TLR) were assessed in ILCs either freshly isolated or following incubation of control LPMC with peptidoglycan, poly I:C, or CpG, the agonists of TLR2, TLR3, or TLR9 respectively, by flow cytometry. The role of ILCs in gut tissue damage was evaluated in a mouse model of poly I:C-driven small intestine atrophy. Although the percentage of total ILCs did not differ between CD patients and CTR, ILCs producing TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma were more abundant in CD mucosa compared to controls. ILCs expressed TLR2, TLR3 and TLR9 but neither TLR7 nor TLR4. Stimulation of LPMC with poly I:C but not PGN or CpG increased TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma in ILCs. RAG1-deficient mice given poly I:C exhibited increased frequency of TNF-alpha but not IFN-gamma/IL17A-producing ILCs in the gut and depletion of ILCs prevented the poly I:C-driven intestinal damage. Our data indicate that CD-related inflammation is marked by accumulation of ILCs producing TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma in the mucosa. Moreover, ILCs express TLR3 and are functionally able to respond to poly I:C with increased synthesis of TNF-alpha thus contributing to small intestinal atrophy.
The plant apoplast forms a protease-rich environment in which proteases are integral components of the plant defense response. Plant pathogenic oomycetes, such as the potato (Solanum tuberosum) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) pathogen Phytophthora infestans, secrete a diverse family of serine protease inhibitors of the Kazal family. Among these, the two-domain EPI1 protein was shown to inhibit and interact with the pathogenesis-related protein P69B subtilase of tomato and was implicated in counter-defense. Here, we describe and functionally characterize a second extracellular protease inhibitor, EPI10, from P. infestans. EPI10 contains three Kazal-like domains, one of which was predicted to be an efficient inhibitor of subtilisin A by an additivity-based sequence to reactivity algorithm (Laskowski algorithm). The epi10 gene was up-regulated during infection of tomato, suggesting a potential role during pathogenesis. Recombinant EPI10 specifically inhibited subtilisin A among the major serine proteases, and inhibited and interacted with P69B subtilase of tomato. The finding that P. infestans evolved two distinct and structurally divergent protease inhibitors to target the same plant protease suggests that inhibition of P69B could be an important infection mechanism for this pathogen.
Recombinant human microsomal heme oxygenase-2 was expressed in Escherichia coli. Tryptic digestion of the membrane fraction, in which the wild-type enzyme was localized, yielded a soluble tryptic peptide of 28 kDa, which retained the ability to accept electrons from NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase and the enzymatic activity for conversion of heme to biliverdin. The tryptic fragment, when purified to apparent homogeneity, bound one equivalent of heme to form a substrate-enzyme complex that had spectroscopic properties characteristic of heme proteins, such as myoglobin and hemoglobin. Optical absorption, Raman scattering, and EPR studies of the heme-tryptic fragment complex revealed that the ferric heme was six coordinate high spin at neutral pH and six coordinate low spin at alkaline pH, with a pK alpha value of 8.5. EPR and Raman scattering studies indicated that a neutral imidazole of a histidine residue served as the proximal ligand in the heme-heme oxygenase-2 fragment complex. The reaction with hydrogen peroxide converted the heme of the heme oxygenase-2 fragment complex into a verdoheme-like intermediate, while the reaction with m-chloroperbenzoic acid yielded a oxoferryl species. These spectroscopic properties are similar to those obtained for heme oxygenase-1, and thus the catalytic mechanism of heme oxygenase-2 appears to be similar to that of heme oxygenase-1.
In this study, sodium caseinate hydrolysates produced by papain with strong growth-stimulating activity for Streptococcus thermophilus (St) and Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus (Lb) were obtained. A series of separation methods including ultrafiltration, macroporous adsorption resin chromatography, gel filtration chromatography, and reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) were applied to isolate and purify the peptide(s), which were mainly responsible for the activity. Finally, three novel growth-stimulating peptides, H-2-A, F2-c, and F2-b, corresponding to amino acid residues 29-35 and 103-108 of bovine alpha(S2)-casein and 181-186 of bovine alpha(S1)-casein, respectively, were obtained. With supplementation of H-2-A, F2-b, or F2-c at a protein concentration of 0.3%, the biomass yield of these two lactic acid bacteria (LAB) was enhanced by 193.3, 166.7, or 151.7%, respectively. In addition, there were significant (p < 0.05) increases in viable counts of St and lactic acid production of LAB in the presence of the purified peptides.
Genetic marker and phenotypic data for a quantitative trait were simulated on 20 paternal half-sib families with 100 progeny to investigate properties of within-family-regression interval mapping of a postulated single quantitative trait locus (QTL) in a marker interval under the infinitesimal genetic model, which has been the basis of the application of quantitative genetics to genetic improvement programs, and to investigate use of the infinitesimal model as null hypothesis in testing for presence of a major QTL. Genetic effects on the marked chromosome were generated based on a major gene model, which simulated a central biallelic QTL, or based on 101 biallelic QTL of equal effect, which approximated the infinitesimal model. The marked chromosome contained 0, 3.3%, 13.3%, or 33.3% of genetic variance and heritability was 0.25 or 0.70. Under the polygenic model with 3.3% of genetic variance on the marked chromosome, which corresponds to the infinitesimal model for the bovine, significant QTL effects were found for individual families. Correlations between estimates of QTL effects and true chromosome substitution effects were 0.29 and 0.47 for heritabilities of 0.25 and 0.70 but up to 0.85 with 33.3% of polygenic variance on the marked chromosome. These results illustrate the potential of marker-assisted selection even under the infinitesimal genetic model. Power of tests for presence of QTL was substantially reduced when the polygenic model with 3.3% of genetic variance on the chromosome was used as a null hypothesis. The ability to determine whether genetic variance on a chromosome was contributed by a single QTL of major effect or a large number of QTL with minor effects, corresponding to the infinitesimal model, was limited.
The ubiquitously expressed uridine-rich snRNAs (small nuclear RNAs) are essential for the removal of introns, proper expression of histone mRNA and biosynthesis of ribosomal RNA. Much is known about their assembly into snRNP (small nuclear ribonucleoprotein) particles and their ultimate function in the expression of other genes; however, in comparison, less is known about the biosynthesis of these critical non-coding RNAs. The sequence elements necessary for 3' end formation of snRNAs have been identified and, intriguingly, the processing of snRNAs is uniquely dependent on the snRNA promoter, indicating that co-transcriptional processing is important. However, the trans-acting RNA-processing factors that mediate snRNA processing remained elusive, hindering overall progress. Recently, the factors involved in this process were biochemically purified, and designated the Integrator complex. Since their initial discovery, Integrator proteins have been implicated not only in the production of snRNA, but also in other cellular processes that may be independent of snRNA biogenesis. In the present study, we discuss snRNA biosynthesis and the roles of Integrator proteins. We compare models of 3' end formation for different classes of RNA polymerase II transcripts and formulate/propose a model of Integrator function in snRNA biogenesis.
beta-Glucans, glucose polymers that are the main constituents of the outer cell walls of micro-organisms such as fungi and yeast, are known to play an immunostimulatory role. We prepared beta-glucan (beta-(1-3),(1-6)-D-glucan) from an edible cultured fungus through fermentation techniques using a strain of Aureobasidium pullulans ADK-34. The purity of this beta-glucan preparation (AP-FBG) was demonstrated to be high through various instrumental analyses. We then examined the effects of AP-FBG on intestinal immune systems. We prepared Peyer's patch (PP) cells and measured interleukin (IL)-5, IL-6, and IgA production in culture media with AP-FBG. We found that both cytokines and IgA increased; furthermore, IL-6 secreted by PP dendritic cells (PPDCs) cultured in the presence of AP-FBG significantly increased. We tested IgA production after oral administration of AP-FBG for 2 weeks and found that AP-FBG tended to promote the production of IgA in the small intestine. Interestingly, we observed a significant increase in IgA production in the small intestines of mice treated with cyclophosphamide (CY; an immunosuppressant) after oral administration of AP-FBG diet compared with CY-treated and control diet mice. Production of IL-6 and IgA by PP cells and IL-6 production by PPDCs in AP-FBG-fed and CY-treated mice also increased. These results demonstrate that AP-FBG has the ability to activate PPDC and induce IL-6 production and IgA secretion in PP cells. These abilities were more clearly expressed when AP-FBG was orally administered in a CY-induced immunosuppressed condition. Therefore, AP-FBG may be a useful ingredient for preparing functional foods with immunomodulatory activities.
A simple method for making a stimulating multi-channel metallic electrode is proposed. The method uses furnace-shaped multiple fine glass tubes as channel guides for inserted tungsten wires that are pulled as a unit to produce multi-channel metallic electrode with a tapered tip. By shortening the tip, the desired inter-channels distances (from tens to hundreds of micrometers) can be established with a high degree of accuracy. Such an electrode was used to stimulate the layer of ganglion cells in a frog's retina. The responses to stimuli were recorded extracellularly in the contralateral tectum from the terminal arborizations of the excited ganglion cells' axons. A larger area of the retina may be excited when several channels are used as a cathode and several others as an anode. By varying the stimulating pairs of the channels it is possible to change the site of excitation without displacing the electrode. Separate ganglion cells may be stimulated, provided the appropriate pair of channels is selected. In this case 'all-or-none' responses to the threshold stimuli are obtained in the tectum. The artefact of the stimulus is diminished effectively by joining additional channels to the anodic one.
Responsive membranes have been used to construct smart biomaterial interfaces. We report a novel approach to fabricate honeycomb films with a pattern of thermoresponsive polymer, namely poly(N-isopropylacrylamide). The approach was based on a combination of the breath figure method and reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer. The hybrid film had morphological and chemical patterns resulting in varied wettability and morphology at various stages, as well as high thermo-responsiveness. Enhanced cell adhesion was observed at an incubation temperature of 37 degrees C, which is above its lower critical solution temperature (LCST). Furthermore, cells could be harvested at temperatures below the LCST without trypsin treatment. The non-invasive characteristics give this membrane potential as a substrate for cell sheet engineering.
Glioma is a malignant nervous system tumor with a high fatality rate and poor prognosis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important post-transcriptional modulators of glioma initiation and progression. Tumor progression often results from dysfunctional co-operation between pathways regulated by miRNAs. We therefore constructed a glioma progression-related miRNA-pathway crosstalk network that not only revealed some key miRNA-pathway patterns, but also helped characterize the functional roles of miRNAs during glioma progression. Our data indicate that crosstalk between cell cycle and p53 pathways is associated with grade II to grade III progression, while cell communications-related pathways involving regulation of actin cytoskeleton and adherens junctions are associated with grade IV glioblastoma progression. Furthermore, miRNAs and their crosstalk pathways may be useful for stratifying glioma and glioblastoma patients into groups with short or long survival times. Our data indicate that a combination of miRNA and pathway crosstalk information can be used for survival prediction.
Medical infusion devices are an integral component within the delivery of healthcare management. The aim of this study was to develop a training simulation in the virtual world of Second Life for the management of adverse events associated with infusion devices. Forty nurses were subsequently recruited to participate within the simulation and assess its feasibility.
Flavocytochrome b (Cyt b) is a heterodimeric, integral membrane protein that serves as the central component of an electron transferase system employed by phagocytes for elimination of bacterial and fungal pathogens. This report describes a rapid and efficient single-step purification of Cyt b from human neutrophil plasma membranes by solubilization in the nonionic detergent dodecylmaltoside (DDM) and immunoaffinity chromatography. A similar procedure for isolation of Cyt b directly from intact neutrophils by a combination of heparin and immunoaffinity chromatography is also presented. The stability of Cyt b was enhanced in DDM relative to previously employed solubilizing agents as determined by both monitoring the heme spectrum in crude membrane extracts and assaying resistance to proteolytic degradation following purification. Gel filtration chromatography and dynamic light scattering indicated that DDM maintains a predominantly monodisperse population of Cyt b following immunoaffinity purification. The high degree of purity obtained with this isolation procedure allowed for direct determination of a 2:1 heme to protein stoichiometry, confirming previous structural models. Analysis of the isolated heterodimer by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry allowed for accurate mass determination of p22(phox) as indicated by the gene sequence. Affinity-purified Cyt b was functionally reconstituted into artificial bilayers and demonstrated that catalytic activity of the protein was efficiently retained throughout the purification procedure.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Infection after hepatic resection constitutes a major cause of morbidity and mortality. We examined the role of Candida antigen in systemic immunity and the infectious complications after hepatectomy. MATERIAL AND METHODS: In 25 hepatectomized patients, the Candida antigen titers were measured by a latex agglutination test (CAND-TEC). In the patients with Candida antigen (n = 10; 40%) and those without (n = 15; 60%), multiple immunological parameters, including the total lymphocyte count, lymphocyte subpopulations, phytohemagglutinin (PHA) response, and natural killer (NK) activity, and the incidence of infectious complications were compared. RESULTS: In the preoperative and operative parameters, there were no significant differences between the two groups. In the postoperative immune parameters, a significant attenuation in the total lymphocyte number (p < 0.01) and NK activity (p < 0.01) was observed in the patients with Candida antigen, compared with the findings in patients without Candida antigen. A bacterial infection was identified in 5 of 10 patients (50.0%) with Candida antigen, and in 1 of 15 patients (6.7%) without Candida antigen (p < 0.05). In contrast, the Candida culture was negative for all patients. CONCLUSIONS: Both a profound attenuation of systemic immunity and frequent bacterial infections were observed in the hepatectomized patients with Candida antigen.
This review addresses the types of vascular access available for patients who need therapeutic apheresis (TA). As in hemodialysis, vascular access for TA is chosen based on type of procedure prescribed, the patient's vascular anatomy, the acuity, frequency and duration of treatment, and the underlying disease state. The types of access available include peripheral vein cannulation, central venous catheters: including nontunneled and tunneled catheters, arterio-venous grafts and arterio-venous fistulas. Peripheral veins and central venous catheters are most frequently utilized for the acute administration of TA, and may be used over a period of weeks to months. Arterio-venous grafts and fistulas are not commonly used in TA procedures, but are an option in patients with an anticipated long course of TA, usually for a period of several months or years. The types and frequency of complications associated with various types of vascular access, including: access dysfunction and infections are reviewed, and strategies for their prevention and management are offered.
It is critical to develop new therapies, such as gene therapy, which can impact on both local and metastatic prostate cancer progression. We have developed an orthotopic mouse model of metastatic prostate cancer using a cell line (RM-1) derived from the mouse prostate reconstitution (MPR) model system. This mouse model closely simulates the anatomical and biological milieu of the prostate and allows for realistic testing of experimental gene therapy protocols. Adenovirus (ADV)-mediated transduction of the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) gene in conjunction with ganciclovir (GCV) in this model led to significant suppression of growth and of spontaneous metastasis at 14 days post-tumor inoculation. Longer-term studies produced a significant survival advantage and a continued suppression of metastatic activity for treatment animals despite regrowth of the primary tumor. Challenge by injection of tumor cells into the tail vein following excision of treated and control s.c. primary tumors resulted in 40% reduction in lung colonization in the treatment group, indicating the possible production of systemic anti-metastatic activity following a single in situ treatment with ADV/HSV-tk + GCV in this model system.
Multidrug-resistance efflux pumps - in particular those belonging to the resistance-nodulation-cell-division (RND) family of transporters, with their unusually high degree of substrate promiscuity - significantly restrict the effectiveness of antibacterial therapy. Recent years have heralded remarkable insights into the structure and mechanisms of these fascinating molecular machines. Here, we review recent advances in the field and describe various approaches used in combating efflux-mediated resistance.
Satisfactory single crystals of deshexapeptide (B25-B30) insulin for X-ray crystal structure analysis have been grown in citrate buffer by the method of hanging-drop gas phase diffusion. The crystal belongs to the monoclinic system with space group C2. The unit cell constants are a = 42.6 A, b = 37.9 A, c = 27.2 A, beta = 125.4 degrees and there is only one molecule of deshexapeptide insulin in an asymmetric unit.
BACKGROUND: Sepsis from bacteremia occurs in 250,000 cases annually in the United States, has a mortality rate as high as 60%, and is associated with a poorer prognosis than localized infection. Because of these high figures, empiric antibiotic administration for patients with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and suspected infection is the second most common indication for antibiotic administration in intensive care units (ICU)s. However, overuse of empiric antibiotics contributes to the development of opportunistic infections, antibiotic resistance, and the increase in multi-drug-resistant bacterial strains. The current method of diagnosing and ruling out bacteremia is via blood culture (BC) and Gram stain (GS) analysis. METHODS: Conventional and molecular methods for diagnosing bacteremia were reviewed and compared. The clinical implications, use, and current clinical trials of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based methods to detect bacterial pathogens in the blood stream were detailed. RESULTS: BC/GS has several disadvantages. These include: some bacteria do not grow in culture media; others do not GS appropriately; and cultures can require up to 5 d to guide or discontinue antibiotic treatment. PCR-based methods can be potentially applied to detect rapidly, accurately, and directly microbes in human blood samples. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the conventional BC/GS, particular advantages to molecular methods (specifically, PCR-based methods) include faster results, leading to possible improved antibiotic stewardship when bacteremia is not present.
Novel polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon dioxygenase gene variants were present in abundances similar to or higher than those of phnA1 from Cycloclasticus spp. at a chronically polluted subantarctic coastal marine environment in Patagonia. These novel gene variants were detected over a 6-year time span and were also present in sediments from temperate Patagonian sites.
C2-toxin from Clostridium botulinum and Iota-toxin from Clostridium perfringens belong both to the binary A-B-type of toxins consisting of two separately secreted components, an enzymatic subunit A and a binding component B that facilitates the entry of the corresponding enzymatic subunit into the target cells. The enzymatic subunits are in both cases actin ADP-ribosyltransferases that modify R177 of globular actin finally leading to cell death. Following their binding to host cells' receptors and internalization, the two binding components form heptameric channels in endosomal membranes which mediate the translocation of the enzymatic components Iota a and C2I from endosomes into the cytosol of the target cells. The binding components form ion-permeable channels in artificial and biological membranes. Chloroquine and related 4-aminoquinolines were able to block channel formation in vitro and intoxication of living cells. In this study, we extended our previous work to the use of different chloroquine analogs and demonstrate that positively charged aminoquinolinium salts are able to block channels formed in lipid bilayer membranes by the binding components of C2- and Iota-toxin. Similarly, these molecules protect cultured mammalian cells from intoxication with C2- and Iota-toxin. The aminoquinolinium salts did presumably not interfere with actin ADP-ribosylation or receptor binding but blocked the pores formed by C2IIa and Iota b in living cells and in vitro. The blocking efficiency of pores formed by Iota b and C2IIa by the chloroquine analogs showed interesting differences indicating structural variations between the types of protein-conducting nanochannels formed by Iota b and C2IIa.
Numerous unique properties of carbon nanotubes make them attractive for applications in neurobiology such as drug delivery, tissue regeneration, and as scaffolds for neuronal growth. In this study, the critical roles of the length of multiwall carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) on a neuronal-like model cell line PC12 cells are investiaged. Incubation of PC12 cells with carboxylated MWCNTs did not significantly affect cellular morphology and viability at lower concentrations. Short MWCNTs show higher cellular uptake and more obvious removal compared to longer ones, which can result in higher ability to promote PC12 cell differentiation. Pre-incubation of short MWCNTs can up-regulate the expression of neurotrophin signaling pathway-associated TrkA/p75 receptors and Pincher/Gap43/TH proteins, which might be the underlying mechanism for the improved differentiation in PC12 cells. The current results provide insight for future applications of MWCNTs in neuron drug delivery and neurodegenerative disease treatment.
Modulation of gene expression by steroid hormones is mediated by receptor proteins that associate with regulatory elements of responsive genes upon binding the hormone ligand. The finding that two glucocorticoid responsive elements act cooperatively to stimulate transcription of the tyrosine aminotransferase gene prompted us to explore whether synergistic effects also occur when two different steroid hormone receptors are involved. A region of the chicken vitellogenin II gene that displays homologies to glucocorticoid and estradiol responsive elements was tested for its capability to confer estradiol and glucocorticoid inducibility to a heterologous promoter. When positioned immediately upstream of the thymidine kinase gene promoter, this element enhances expression by either steroid. Combination of both hormones results in a synergistic increase of transcription. Mutational analysis shows that sequences that show similarities of glucocorticoid and estradiol responsive elements are absolutely required for hormone induction. Analysis of the dose dependence of induction by both steroids demonstrates that half-maximal activity is observed at lower hormone concentrations when the other steroid is present in saturating amounts, which suggests that the synergistic induction observed with the combination of hormones is based on a functional interaction of the two hormone receptors.
Encephalitis is a frequently diagnosed condition in cattle with neurological diseases. Many affected animals present with a nonsuppurative inflammatory reaction pattern in the brain. While this pattern supports a viral etiology, the causative pathogen remains unknown in a large proportion of cases. Using viral metagenomics, we identified an astrovirus (bovine astrovirus [BoAstV]-CH13) in the brain of a cow with nonsuppurative encephalitis. Additionally, BoAstV RNA was detected with reverse transcription-PCR and in situ hybridization in about one fourth (5/22 animals) of cattle with nonsuppurative encephalitis of unknown etiology. Viral RNA was found primarily in neurons and at the site of pathology. These findings support the notion that BoAstV infection is a common cause of encephalitis in cattle. Phylogenetically, BoAstV-CH13 was closely related to rare astrovirus isolates from encephalitis cases in animals and a human patient. Future research needs to be directed toward the pathogenic mechanisms, epidemiology, and potential cross-species transmission of these neurotropic astroviruses.
Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) is ubiquitous in the environment, and the exposure to DDT and its related pesticides has long been linked to endocrine disruption. The mechanism of endocrine disruption toward targeted receptors, however, remains unclear. Probing the molecular recognition of DDT analogs by targeted receptors at the atomic level is critical for deciphering this mechanism. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were applied to probe the molecular recognition process of DDT and its five analogs, including dichlordiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD), methoxychlor (MXC), p,p'-hydroxy-DDT (HPTE), and dicofol by human estrogen receptor (ER) alpha and human ER-related receptor (ERR) gamma. Van der Waals interactions mainly drive the interactions of DDT analogs with ERalpha ligand-binding domain (LBD) and ERRgamma LBD. Minor structural changes of DDT analogs in the number and position of chlorine and phenolic hydroxyl moiety cause differences in binding modes through aromatic stacking and hydrogen bonding and thus affect differently conformational changes of ERalpha LBD and ERRgamma LBD. The binding of DDT analogs affects the helix 12 orientation of ERalpha LBD but causes no rearrangement of helix 12 of ERRgamma LBD. These results extend our understanding of how DDT analogs exert their estrogen-disrupting effects toward different receptors via multiple mechanisms.
Epidemiological studies suggest that a father's diet can influence offspring health. A proposed mechanism for paternal transmission of environmental information is via the sperm epigenome. The epigenome includes heritable information such as DNA methylation. We hypothesize that the dietary supply of methyl donors will alter epigenetic reprogramming in sperm. Here we feed male mice either a folate-deficient or folate-sufficient diet throughout life. Paternal folate deficiency is associated with increased birth defects in the offspring, which include craniofacial and musculoskeletal malformations. Genome-wide DNA methylation analysis and the subsequent functional analysis identify differential methylation in sperm of genes implicated in development, chronic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, autism and schizophrenia. While >300 genes are differentially expressed in offspring placenta, only two correspond to genes with differential methylation in sperm. This model suggests epigenetic transmission may involve sperm histone H3 methylation or DNA methylation and that adequate paternal dietary folate is essential for offspring health.
Forty-nine isolates of Burkholderia pseudomallei from sporadic cases of melioidosis in Malaysia over the past 18 years were examined by BamHI ribotyping and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) of XbaI digests of total deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). Twenty-four patients had septicaemic melioidosis with a mortality of 70%; mortality in the non-septicaemic disease was 16%. Five ribotype patterns were identified, 2 of which accounted for 90% of all isolates. PFGE revealed a number of different strains within these ribotypes, but some pairs of isolates from unrelated cases gave closely similar DNA profiles. These results are in agreement with Australian studies which showed a high prevalence of a few ribotypes of B. pseudomallei which are further divisible by genotyping, in areas where melioidosis is endemic.
BACKGROUND: The current literature regarding hemorrhagic complications in patients on long-term antiplatelet therapy undergoing emergent laparoscopic cholecystectomy is limited. The aim of our study was to describe hemorrhagic complications in patients on prehospital aspirin (ASP) therapy undergoing emergent cholecystectomy. METHODS: We performed a 1-year retrospective analysis of our prospectively maintained acute care surgery database. The 2 groups (ASP group vs No ASP group) were matched in a 1:1 ratio for age, sex, previous abdominal surgeries, and comorbidities. Primary outcome measures were intraoperative hemorrhage, postoperative anemia, need for blood transfusion, and conversion to open cholecystectomy. Intraoperative hemorrhage was defined as intraoperative blood loss of >/= 100 mL; postoperative anemia was defined by >/= 2 g/dL drop in hemoglobin. RESULTS: A total of 112 (ASP: 56, no ASP: 56) patients were included in the analysis. The mean age was 65.9 +/- 10 years, and 50% were male. There was no difference in age (P = .9), sex (P = .9), and comorbidities (P = .7) between the 2 groups. There was no difference in intraoperative blood loss >100 mL (P = .5), postoperative anemia (P = .8), blood transfusion requirement (P = .9), and conversion to open surgery (P = .7) between patients on American Society of Anesthesiologists therapy and patients not on American Society of Anesthesiologists therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Emergent laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe procedure in patients on long-term ASP. Prehospital use of ASP as an independent factor should not be used to delay emergent cholecystectomy.
The C-type lectin dendritic cell (DC)-specific intercellular adhesion molecule 3-grabbing nonintegrin (DC-SIGN) is the major receptor on DCs for mycobacteria of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. Recently, we have shown that although the mannose caps of the mycobacterial surface glycolipid lipoarabinomannan (ManLAM) are essential for the binding to DC-SIGN, genetic removal of these caps did not diminish the interaction of whole mycobacteria with DC-SIGN and DCs. Here we investigated the role of the structurally related glycolipids phosphatidylinositol mannosides (PIMs) as possible ligands for DC-SIGN. In a binding assay with both synthetic and natural PIMs, DC-SIGN exhibited a high affinity for hexamannosylated PIM(6), which contains terminal alpha(1-->2)-linked mannosyl residues identical to the mannose cap on ManLAM, but not for di- and tetramannosylated PIM(2) and PIM(4), respectively. To determine the role of PIM(6) in the binding of whole mycobacteria to DC-SIGN, a mutant strain of M. bovis bacillus Calmette-Guerin deficient in the production of PIM(6) (Delta pimE) was created, as well as a double knockout deficient in the production of both PIM(6) and the mannose caps on LAM (Delta pimE Delta capA). Compared to the wild-type strain, both mutant strains bound similarly well to DC-SIGN and DCs. Furthermore, the wild-type and mutant strains induced comparable levels of interleukin-10 and interleukin-12p40 when used to stimulate DCs. Hence, we conclude that, like ManLAM, PIM(6) represents a bona fide DC-SIGN ligand but that other, as-yet-unknown, ligands dominate in the interaction between mycobacteria and DCs.
The objective of this study was to isolate and identify suspected pathogens from peacocks and peacock farmers with severe pneumonia and to investigate its potential association with peacocks' pneumonia, caused by Chlamydophila psittaci infection. A clinical examination of infected peacocks identified birds with symptoms of anorexia, weight loss, yellowish droppings, airsacculitis, sinusitis, and conjunctivitis, whereas the infected farmers showed high fever and respiratory distress. Immunofluorescence tests detected chlamydial antigens in pharyngeal swabs (12 of 20) and lung tissue samples (four of five) from peacocks. One of four swabs taken from farmers was also positive by the same test. Specific anti-chlamydia immunoglobulin G was detected in 16 of 20 peacocks and four of four peacock farmers. The isolated pathogen was able to grow in specific-pathogen-free (SPF) chicken embryos and McCoy cell lines and was identified as Chlamydiae by immunofluorescence assay and PCR. Avian influenza virus, Newcastle disease virus, and infectious bronchitis virus were eliminated as potential causative agents after pharyngeal swabs inoculated onto the chorioallantoic membrane of embryonate eggs failed to recover viable virus. PCR and restriction fragment length polymorphism indicated the ompA gene from the isolate was similar to that of avian C. psittaci type B. Three-week-old SPF chickens challenged with the peacock isolate via intraperitoneal injection showed a typical pneumonia, airsacculitis, and splenitis. Subsequently, the inoculating strain was recovered from the lungs of challenged birds. This is the first report of C. psittaci infection in peacocks and peacock farmers.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to verify whether HIV activates two endogenous retroviruses of the human endogenous retrovirus (HERV)-W family, multiple sclerosis-associated retrovirus (MSRV) and Syncytin-1, whose neuropathogenic and immunopathogenic properties could contribute to HIV-related neurodegeneration. DESIGN AND METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells, monocyte-macrophages and astrocytes were either infected by HIV or exposed to HIV-Tat, and/or other treatments. The expression of transcripts and proteins of interest was evaluated by real-time RT-PCR and western blotting assays, respectively. RESULTS: HIV and Tat increase the levels of MSRVenv mRNAs and HERV-Wenv proteins in astrocytes and in blood cells. In monocyte-macrophages, Tat also induces high levels of CCR2, CD16 and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) molecules. Syncytin-1 response to Tat depends on the cell context: in monocytes, Tat stimulates MSRVenv and inhibits Syncytin-1, while in differentiated macrophages, it stimulates both elements. In primary astrocytes, Tat stimulates MSRV and Syncytin-1 indirectly, through interaction with TLR4 and induction of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), without internalization. CONCLUSION: In-vivo consequence of the study could be that, through increase of CD16 and CCR2, Tat promotes neuroinvasion not only by HIV-infected monocytes/macrophages but also by the HERV-Ws, with their neuropathogenic potential. Also, the novel finding of TLR4 stimulation by Tat may be of relevance, as TLR4 is critical in neuroinflammation. Within central nervous system (CNS), Tat-induced TNFalpha could induce high levels of the HERV-Ws, in both macrophages and astrocytes, also without HIV replication. The indirect mechanism by which Tat activates the HERV-Ws through induction of TNFalpha could add a new piece to the puzzle of CNS pathogenesis, that is the HERV-Wenv contribute to the HIV-related neurodegeneration.
The arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor and mediates carcinogenic, teratogenic, and toxic effects of xenobiotics such as dioxin and coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls. The AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) is involved in AhR signal transduction. We have analyzed the expression of AhR and ARNT mRNA and AhR protein in Day 3 pc (postcoitum) rabbit morulae and Days 4 and 6 pc blastocysts using RT-PCR, nested PCR, whole mount in situ hybridization, and whole mount immunohistochemistry with subsequent confocal laser scanning analysis. AhR and ARNT transcripts were detected in all stages investigated, indicating coexpression of both transcription factors. AhR protein was localized in the cytoplasm. It was detected in Day 3 pc morulae and in blastocysts. In Day 4 pc blastocysts, only trophoblast cells but not embryoblast cells were immunopositive. However, at Day 6 pc, the embryoblast cells also expressed AhR protein and this expression was correlated with the degeneration of Rauber's trophoblast layer.
Israeli farmers export 250,000 tons of potato tubers annually, approximately 40,000 tons of which are harvested early, before skin set. In recent years, there has been an increase in the occurrence of dark skin spots on early-harvested potato tubers ('Nicola') packed in large bags containing peat to retain moisture. The irregular necrotic spots form during storage and overseas transport. Characterization of the conditions required for symptom development indicated that bag temperature after packing is 11 to 13 degrees C and it reaches the target temperature (8 degrees C) only 25 days postharvest. This slow decrease in temperature may promote the establishment of pathogen infection. Isolates from typical lesions were identified as Rhizoctonia spp., and Koch's postulates were completed with 25 isolates by artificial inoculation performed at 13 to 14 degrees C. Phylogenetic analysis, using the internal transcribed spacer sequences (ITS1 and ITS2) of rDNA genes, assigned three isolates to anastomosis group 3 of Rhizoctonia solani. Inoculation of wounded tubers with mycelium of these R. solani isolates resulted in an oversuberization response in the infected area. With isolate Rh17 of R. solani, expression of the suberin biosynthesis-related genes StKCS6 and CYP86A33 increased 6.8- and 3.4-fold, respectively, 24 h postinoculation, followed by a 2.9-fold increase in POP_A, a gene associated with wound-induced suberization, expression 48 h postinoculation, compared with the noninoculated tubers. We suggest that postharvest dark spot disease is an oversuberization response to R. solani of AG-3 infection that occurs prior to tuber skin set.
The release of neuropeptides from primary sensory nerve fibers has been implicated in the modulation of local immune responses in surface tissues, such as the skin and the gastrointestinal mucosa, thereby inducing neurogenic inflammation, which is characterized by plasma extravasation and vasodilatation. In addition, cytokines, either alone or in conjunction with neuropeptides, initiate recruitment of immunocompetent cells such as neutrophils during the initial phases of inflammation. Growing evidence suggests that the neuropeptide galanin plays an important role in skin immune defense and pathophysiology. In this paper, we report that adult mice carrying a loss-of-function mutation in the galanin gene (galanin knockout, Gal KO) demonstrate an absence of the normal neurogenic inflammatory response, upon treatment of the skin either with the vanilloid receptor 1 agonist capsaicin or noxious heat. Furthermore, a lack of an acute inflammatory edema induced by coinjection of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide was observed. In addition, Gal KO animals also exhibit a deficit in neutrophil accumulation in the skin after exposure to noxious heat, carrageenin, or tumor necrosis factor alpha. These data indicate that Gal KO mice demonstrate abnormal neurogenic inflammatory responses in murine skin compared to strain-matched wild-type mice.
Novel silk fibroin (SF) and carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) composite nanofibrous scaffold (SFC) were developed to investigate their ability to nucleate bioactive nanosized calcium phosphate (Ca/P) by biomineralization for bone tissue engineering application. The composite nanofibrous scaffold was prepared by free liquid surface electrospinning method. The developed composite nanofibrous scaffold was observed to control the size of Ca/P particle (</=100nm) as well as uniform nucleation of Ca/P over the surface. The obtained nanofibrous scaffolds were fully characterized for their functional, structural and mechanical property. The XRD and EDX analysis depicted the development of apatite like crystals over SFC scaffolds of nanospherical in morphology and distributed uniformly throughout the surface of scaffold. Additionally, hydrophilicity as a measure of contact angle and water uptake capacity is higher than pure SF scaffold representing the superior cell supporting property of the SF/CMC scaffold. The effect of biomimetic Ca/P on osteogenic differentiation of umbilical cord blood derived human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) studied in early and late stage of differentiation shows the improved osteoblastic differentiation capability as compared to pure silk fibroin. The obtained result confirms the positive correlation of alkaline phosphatase activity, alizarin staining and expression of runt-related transcription factor 2, osteocalcin and type1 collagen representing the biomimetic property of the scaffolds. Thus, the developed composite has been demonstrated to be a potential scaffold for bone tissue engineering application.
This paper reports a novel use of cluster analysis for the identification of intermediary metabolites that are produced at rates closely correlated with those of antibiotic biosynthesis. This information was used to devise culture feeds resulting in enhanced production of clavulanic acid, an antibiotic of current worldwide commercial interest. The feeding strategies apparently alleviated a rate-limiting supply of the C3 precursor of clavulanic acid. C3 limitation may be a consequence of unusual nitrogen and carbon metabolism in Streptomyces clavuligerus. This approach has potential as a generic method for influencing biosynthetic pathway fluxes using feeds without knowledge of the biosynthetic pathway.
Inter-species and intraspecific variations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) were observed in a bioinformatics analysis of the mitochondrial genomic sequences of 11 animal species. Some highly conserved regions were identified in the mitochondrial 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes of these species. To test whether these sequences are universally conserved, primers were designed to target the conserved regions of these two genes and were used to amplify DNA from 21 animal tissues, including two of unknown origin. By sequencing these PCR amplicons and aligning the sequences to a database of non-redundant nucleotide sequences, it was confirmed that these amplicons aligned specifically to mtDNA sequences from the expected species of origin. This molecular technique, when combined with bioinformatics, provides a reliable method for the taxonomic classification of animal tissues.
The intrahost evolution of hepatitis C virus (HCV) holds keys to understanding mechanisms responsible for the establishment of chronic infections and to development of a vaccine and therapeutics. In this study, intrahost variants of two variable HCV genomic regions, HVR1 and NS5A, were sequenced from four treatment-naive chronically infected patients who were followed up from the acute stage of infection for 9 to 18 years. Median-joining network analysis indicated that the majority of the HCV intrahost variants were observed only at certain time points, but some variants were detectable at more than one time point. In all patients, these variants were found organized into communities or subpopulations. We hypothesize that HCV intrahost evolution is defined by two processes: incremental changes within communities through random mutation and alternations between coexisting communities. The HCV population was observed to incrementally evolve within a single community during approximately the first 3 years of infection, followed by dispersion into several subpopulations. Two patients demonstrated this pattern of dispersion for the rest of the observation period, while HCV variants in the other two patients converged into another single subpopulation after approximately 9 to 12 years of dispersion. The final subpopulation in these two patients was under purifying selection. Intrahost HCV evolution in all four patients was characterized by a consistent increase in negative selection over time, suggesting the increasing HCV adaptation to the host late in infection. The data suggest specific staging of HCV intrahost evolution.
OBJECTIVE: To illustrate the role of structure and hypermethylation of p16 gene in the pathogenesis of multiple myeloma(MM). METHODS: By using PCR-single strand conformation polymorphisms(PCR-SSCP) and methylation-specific PCR(MSP) techniques, the structure and hypermethylation status of p16 gene in MM cell lines and patients were analysed. RESULTS: Homozygous deletion of p16 exon 2 was found in KM3 cells. The completely methylated p16 gene and hypermethylation of CPG island were observed in U266, LP1 cell lines and 55.56% of MM patients. CONCLUSION: Methylation of p16 gene is important in the pathogenesis of MM and may provide a new drug target for the treatment of MM.
The chaotropic anion perchlorate (ClO4-) is a potent amplifier of stimulated insulin secretion in vitro. Acute effects of perchlorate on serum glucose and insulin levels were investigated in normal mice. Intraperitoneal injection of single doses of NaClO4 at 10-300 mg kg-1 body wt showed only a slight, reducing effect on the basal serum glucose level, reaching statistical significance only at 300 mg kg-1 body wt. However, a single dose of NaClO4 (300 mg kg-1 body wt) given together with a glucose load (0.9 g kg-1 body wt) significantly counteracted the increase in serum glucose and reduced the serum glucose/insulin ratio 20 min after administration. The perchlorate effect was transient and at 60 and 90 min after administration the serum insulin and glucose levels were comparable with those of the glucose-treated control animals. The results suggest that perchlorate enhances glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in mice in vivo and thereby reduces the serum glucose level after a glucose load but does not much affect the basal serum glucose level.
We extend the work of the first two papers in this series [Appl. Opt. 50, 4998-5011 (2011), Appl. Opt. 50, 5012-5022 (2011)] to design compound prisms for linear-in-wavenumber dispersion, especially for application in spectral domain optical coherence tomography (OCT). These dispersive prism designs are believed to be the first to meet the requirements of high resolution OCT systems in direct-view geometry, where they can be used to shrink system size, to improve light throughput, to reduce stray light, and to reduce errors resulting from interpolating between wavelength- and wavenumber-sampled domains. We show prism designs that can be used for thermal sources or for wideband superluminescent diodes centered around wavelengths 850, 900, 1300, and 1375 nm.
PURPOSE: To investigate the impact of the cytidine deaminase (CDA) A79C polymorphism on both the response to gemcitabine in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients and the risk of hematologic toxicities in patients bearing any kind of cancer taking gemcitabine. METHODS: The PubMed and Embase databases were searched from the first available article to January 2013. Eligible studies included clinical trials that contained the keywords "gemcitabine" or "cytidine deaminase" and information about response rate of NSCLC patients or hematologic toxicities in patients with any kind of cancer. Relative risk (RR) of different genotypes and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. RESULTS: A total of 7 articles (623 patients from 6 studies) were included. The results showed that patients with wild type CDA (AA and AC) had a significantly lower rate of severe anemia than the homozygote mutant type CC (RR=0.308; 95%CI, 0.113-0.021, p=0.021). However, the rate of severe neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and the response rate were identical between different CDA genotypes. CONCLUSION: The A79C CDA polymorphism did not show a significant impact on the response rate to gemcitabine in NSCLC patients, while the wild type CDA genotype was indeed correlated to a lower rate of incidence of severe anemia in patients taking gemcitabine.
An analytical method based on ICP-MS was developed for the determination of Ti in food simulants (3% (w/v) aqueous acetic acid and 50% (v/v) aqueous ethanol). The method was used to determine the migration of Ti from nano-TiO(2)-PE films used for food packaging into food simulants under different temperature and migration time conditions. The maximum migration amounts into 3% (w/v) aqueous acetic acid were 1.4 +/- 0.02, 6.3 +/- 0.5 and 12.1 +/- 0.2 mug kg(-1) at 25, 70 and 100 degrees C, respectively, while into 50% (v/v) aqueous ethanol, the maximum migration amounts were 0.5 +/- 0.1, 0.6 +/- 0.03 and 2.1 +/- 0.1 mug kg(-1) at 25, 70 and 100 degrees C, respectively. Increasing the additive content in the film promoted migration of nanoparticles. The results indicated that the migration of nanoparticles might occur via dissolution from the surface and cut edges of the solid phase (film) into the liquid phase (food simulant).
PURPOSE: The major aromatic constituents of petroleum products viz. benzene, toluene, and mixture of xylenes (BTX) are responsible for environmental pollution and inflict serious public concern. Therefore, BTX biodegradation potential of individual as well as formulated bacterial consortium was evaluated. This study highlighted the role of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), nitrate, and phosphate in stimulating the biodegradation of BTX compounds under hypoxic condition. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The individual bacterium viz. Bacillus subtilis DM-04 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa M and NM strains and a consortium comprising of the above bacteria were inoculated to BTX-containing liquid medium and in soil. The bioremediation experiment was carried out for 120 h in BTX-containing liquid culture and for 90 days in BTX-contaminated soil. The kinetics of BTX degradation either in presence or absence of H(2)O(2), nitrate, and phosphate was analyzed using biochemical and gas chromatographic (GC) technique. RESULTS: Bacterial consortium was found to be superior in degrading BTX either in soil or in liquid medium as compared to degradation of same compounds by individual strains of the consortium. The rate of BTX biodegradation was further enhanced when the liquid medium/soil was exogenously supplemented with 0.01 % (v/v) H(2)O(2), phosphate, and nitrate(.) The GC analysis of BTX biodegradation (90 days post-inoculation) in soil by bacterial consortium confirmed the preferential degradation of benzene compared to m-xylene and toluene. CONCLUSIONS: It may be concluded that the bacterial consortium in the present study can degrade BTX compounds at a significantly higher rate as compared to the degradation of the same compounds by individual members of the consortium. Further, addition of H(2)O(2) in the culture medium as an additional source of oxygen, and nitrate and phosphate as an alternative electron acceptor and macronutrient, respectively, significantly enhanced the rate of BTX biodegradation under oxygen-limited condition.
Perturbations in immune processes play an important role in chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis (CFS/ME), a multifactorial disorder mainly characterized by severe and prolonged fatigue and tipically affecting a variety of bodily systems including the immune system. Recent reports have shown that CFS/ME is an inflammatory disorder may be associated with autoimmune responses, mainly characterized by reduced functional activity of most immune cells, including neutrophils, natural killer cells, monocytes/macrophage and dendritic cells, together with dysregulations in cytokine levels, responsible for changes in the adaptive immune system. Interactions between gut microorganisms and host immune function have been shown to contribute to aberrant inflammation in CFS/ME patients. Commensal and/or pathogen-associated molecular patterns detected by Toll-like receptors (TLRs) expressed on intestinal epithelial cells appear to trigger inflammatory signaling cascade leading to neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. This paper examines the role of TLR-mediated innate immunity in CFS/ME with evaluation of the current literature, also discussing about innovative therapeutic approaches represented by immunomodulators TLR-targeting.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) occurs irreversibly and is characterized by progressive airflow obstruction. Renin angiotensin system (RAS) has many different key enzymes and receptors that have a role for different systemic processes. We aimed to determine genotype and allele frequencies of angiotensinogen (AGT) M235T and angiotensin II-type 1 receptor (AT1-R) A/C1166 polymorphisms in patients with COPD. This study was performed on 56 unrelated COPD patients and 29 healthy subjects. DNA samples for each individual were isolated from peripheral blood by phenol/chloroform method, analyzed by polymerase chain reaction and enzymatic digestion methodologies. The distribution for each of AGT genotypes were 23.2% for MM (13), 75.0% for MT (42) and 1.8% for TT (1) in the COPD group; 37.9% for MM (11), 34.5% for MT (10) and 27.6% for TT (8) in the control group. The distribution of AGT genotypes was found significantly different between groups (X(2) = 18.604; df = 2; P = 0.000). The frequencies for each of the AT1-R genotypes were found as 53.6% for AA (30), 42.9% for AC (24), 3.6% for CC (2) in the COPD group; 55.2% for AA (16), 41.4% for AC (12) and 3.4% for CC (1) in the control group. The distribution of AT1-R genotypes did not change significantly between groups. Allele frequencies of interested genes were not significantly different between groups. We suggest that AGT polymorphism may play a role for the development of COPD. We believe these data can be served for large scale population genetics research, considering the frequency of AGT and AT1-R genes and alleles in COPD patients in the Turkish population.
The goal of this study was to evaluate three-dimensional (3-D) poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) hydrogels as a culture system for studying corneal keratocytes. Bovine keratocytes were subcultured in DMEM/F-12 containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) through passage 5. Primary keratocytes (P0) and corneal fibroblasts from passages 1 (P1) and 3 (P3) were photoencapsulated at various cell concentrations in PEG hydrogels via brief exposure to light. Additional hydrogels contained adhesive YRGDS and nonadhesive YRDGS peptides. Hydrogel constructs were cultured in DMEM/F-12 with 10% FBS for 2 and 4 weeks. Cell viability was assessed by DNA quantification and vital staining. Biglycan, type I collagen, type III collagen, keratocan and lumican expression were determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Deposition of type I collagen, type III collagen and keratan sulfate (KS)-containing matrix components was visualized using confocal microscopy. Keratocytes in a monolayer lost their stellate morphology and keratocan expression, displayed elongated cell bodies, and up-regulated biglycan, type I collagen and type III collagen characteristic of corneal fibroblasts. Encapsulated keratocytes remained viable for 4 weeks with spherical morphologies. Hydrogels supported production of KS, type I collagen and type III collagen matrix components. PEG-based hydrogels can support keratocyte viability and matrix production. 3-D hydrogel culture can stabilize but not restore the keratocyte phenotype. This novel application of PEG hydrogels has potential use in the study of corneal keratocytes in a 3-D environment.
This article provides evidence that refreshing, a hypothetical attention-based process operating in working memory (WM), improves the accessibility of visual representations for recall. "Thinking of", one of several concurrently active representations, is assumed to refresh its trace in WM, protecting the representation from being forgotten. The link between refreshing and WM performance, however, has only been tenuously supported by empirical evidence. Here, we controlled which and how often individual items were refreshed in a color reconstruction task by presenting cues prompting participants to think of specific WM items during the retention interval. We show that the frequency with which an item is refreshed improves recall of this item from visual WM. Our study establishes a role of refreshing in recall from visual WM and provides a new method for studying the impact of refreshing on the amount of information we can keep accessible for ongoing cognition.
Multiple guidelines for nutrition services in the postburn period exist. Given that nutrition intervention after burn injury affects outcome, it is appropriate to routinely consider methods for improving current practices. Effective nutrition therapies for the thermally injured individual are outlined in this article. Support for benchmarking these protocols is presented, and the completion of outcomes research in nutrition services for patients with burn injuries is encouraged.
Control of nuclear RNA stability is essential for proper gene expression, but the mechanisms governing RNA degradation in mammalian nuclei are poorly defined. In this study, we uncover a mammalian RNA decay pathway that depends on the nuclear poly(A)-binding protein (PABPN1), the poly(A) polymerases (PAPs), PAPalpha and PAPgamma, and the exosome subunits RRP6 and DIS3. Using a targeted knockdown approach and nuclear RNA reporters, we show that PABPN1 and PAPalpha, redundantly with PAPgamma, generate hyperadenylated decay substrates that are recognized by the exosome and degraded. Poly(A) tail extension appears to be necessary for decay, as cordycepin treatment or point mutations in the PAP-stimulating domain of PABPN1 leads to the accumulation of stable transcripts with shorter poly(A) tails than controls. Mechanistically, these data suggest that PABPN1-dependent promotion of PAP activity can stimulate nuclear RNA decay. Importantly, efficiently exported RNAs are unaffected by this decay pathway, supporting an mRNA quality control function for this pathway. Finally, analyses of both bulk poly(A) tails and specific endogenous transcripts reveals that a subset of nuclear RNAs are hyperadenylated in a PABPN1-dependent fashion, and this hyperadenylation can be either uncoupled or coupled with decay. Our results highlight a complex relationship between PABPN1, PAPalpha/gamma, and nuclear RNA decay, and we suggest that these activities may play broader roles in the regulation of human gene expression.
In the mammalian auditory system, the synapse between efferent olivocochlear (OC) neurons and sensory cochlear hair cells is cholinergic, fast, and inhibitory. This efferent synapse is mediated by the nicotinic alpha9alpha10 receptor coupled to the activation of SK2 Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels that hyperpolarize the cell. So far, the ion channels that support and/or modulate neurotransmitter release from the OC terminals remain unknown. To identify these channels, we used an isolated mouse cochlear preparation and monitored transmitter release from the efferent synaptic terminals in inner hair cells (IHCs) voltage clamped in the whole-cell recording configuration. Acetylcholine (ACh) release was evoked by electrically stimulating the efferent fibers that make axosomatic contacts with IHCs before the onset of hearing. Using the specific antagonists for P/Q- and N-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs), omega-agatoxin IVA and omega-conotoxin GVIA, respectively, we show that Ca(2+) entering through both types of VGCCs support the release process at this synapse. Interestingly, we found that Ca(2+) entering through the dihydropiridine-sensitive L-type VGCCs exerts a negative control on transmitter release. Moreover, using immunostaining techniques combined with electrophysiology and pharmacology, we show that BK Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels are transiently expressed at the OC efferent terminals contacting IHCs and that their activity modulates the release process at this synapse. The effects of dihydropiridines combined with iberiotoxin, a specific BK channel antagonist, strongly suggest that L-type VGCCs negatively regulate the release of ACh by fueling BK channels that are known to curtail the duration of the terminal action potential in several types of neurons.
BACKGROUND: Premature aging seriously compromises the health status of Down Syndrome (DS) persons. Since human aging has been associated with a deterioration of the gut microbiota (GM)-host mutualism, here we investigated the composition of GM in DS. METHODS: The observational study presented involved 17 adult DS persons. We characterized the GM structure by 454 pyrosequencing of the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. DS microbiome was compared with that of age-matched healthy non-trisomic adults enrolled in the same geographic area. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The dominant GM fraction of DS persons showed an overall mutualistic immune-modulatory layout, comparable to that of healthy controls. This makes GM a possible factor counteracting the genetic determined acceleration of immune senescence in DS persons. However, we also found detectable signatures specific for DS among subdominant GM components, such as the increase of Parasporobacterium and Sutterella. In particular, the abundance of this last microorganism significantly correlated with the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC) total score, allowing us to hypothesize a possible role for this microbial genus in behavioral features in DS.
The retinoblastoma-related p130 protein is a member of a conserved family, consisting of Rb, p107 and p130, which are believed to play important roles in cell-cycle control and cellular differentiation. We have generated a null mutation in p130 by gene targeting and crossed the null allele into Balb/cJ and C57BL/6J strains of mice. In an enriched Balb/cJ genetic background, p130(-/-) embryos displayed arrested growth and died between embryonic days 11 and 13. Histological analysis revealed varying degrees of disorganization in neural and dermamyotomal structures. Immunohistochemistry with antibody reactive with Islet-1 indicated markedly reduced numbers of neurons in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. Immunohistochemistry with antibody reactive with desmin indicated a similar reduction in the number of differentiated myocytes in the myotome. The myocardium of mutant embryos was abnormally thin and resembled an earlier staged two-chambered heart consisting of the bulbus cordis and the ventricular chamber. TUNEL analysis indicated the presence of extensive apoptosis in various tissues including the neural tube, the brain, the dermomyotome, but not the heart. Immunohistochemistry with antibody reactive with PCNA revealed increased cellular proliferation in the neural tube and the brain, and decreased proliferation in the heart. The placentas of p130(-/-) embryos did not display elevated apoptosis and were indistinguishable from wild type suggesting that the phenotype was not due to placental failure. Following a single cross with the C57BL/6 mice, p130(-/-) animals were derived that were viable and fertile. These results indicate that p130 in a Balb/cJ genetic background plays an essential role that is required for normal development. Moreover, our experiments establish that second-site modifier genes exist that have an epistatic relationship with p130.
We investigated the effects of hypoxia on inducible NO synthase (iNOS) activity and expression in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synoviocytes. We further studied the relationship between nitrosative stress and NADPH oxidase (NOX) in such conditions. Human cultured synoviocytes were treated for 24 hours with IL-1beta, TNF-alpha or neither, and submitted to hypoxia or normoxia for the last 6 hours. Nitrite production and iNOS expression were increased under hypoxia conditions in RA cells in comparison to normoxia. Hypoxia did not potentate the basal and cytokine-induced superoxide productions, while NOXs' subunit expression and p47-phox phosphorylation were increased. Nitrosylation of NOXs and p47-phox was not raised under hypoxia conditions. Finally, peroxynitrite production was significantly increased under hypoxia conditions, in comparison to normoxia. Our results provide evidence for upregulation of iNOS and NOX activities in RA synoviocytes under hypoxia conditions, associated to an increased peroxynitrite production. Synovial cell metabolism under hypoxia conditions might be different from that in normoxia.
Biodegradability describes the capacity of substances to be mineralized by free-living bacteria. It is a crucial property in estimating a compound's long-term impact on the environment. The ability to reliably predict biodegradability would reduce the need for laborious experimental testing. However, this endpoint is difficult to model due to unavailability or inconsistency of experimental data. Our approach makes use of the Online Chemical Modeling Environment (OCHEM) and its rich supply of machine learning methods and descriptor sets to build classification models for ready biodegradability. These models were analyzed to determine the relationship between characteristic structural properties and biodegradation activity. The distinguishing feature of the developed models is their ability to estimate the accuracy of prediction for each individual compound. The models developed using seven individual descriptor sets were combined in a consensus model, which provided the highest accuracy. The identified overrepresented structural fragments can be used by chemists to improve the biodegradability of new chemical compounds. The consensus model, the datasets used, and the calculated structural fragments are publicly available at http://ochem.eu/article/31660.
During the past decade, genomic analyses have been introduced into cancer studies with variable success. It has become recognised, however, that genomic techniques in isolation are insufficient to study the complex pathways of carcinogenesis; this has led to the application of proteomic techniques, which allow for the reliable analysis of complex mixtures of proteins. This article reviews the basic principles of proteomics, methods currently used in proteomics including two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry (MS), and the application of proteomics in cancer research. Currently, proteomic technology has been used in two main areas of cancer research: early diagnosis and treatment (included prediction of response to treatment and targeting novel cancer agents). The initial results from both in vitro and in vivo studies are impressive. These technologies, particularly when combined with genomic analyses, will provide valuable insights into the molecular basis of carcinogenesis and the development of more effective anti-cancer therapies.
Cases of botulism in a family in eastern Anatolia were studied. In late September 2005, an outbreak of botulism developed in our region, first in 2 patients, a teenage boy and his mother, in whom the disease culminated in respiratory insufficiency and death. An additional 8 cases of botulism were identified later; most of them presented to our medical centre the next d. These patients with milder symptoms recovered gradually. All the patients received anti-botulinum toxin. The investigation of the source of the outbreak showed an unexpected vehicle for botulism infection in the these patients, suzme (condensed) yoghurt buried under soil. Type A botulinal toxin was detected in the yoghurt sample. The clinical diagnosis was also confirmed by a mouse bioassay performed with the serum samples of the patients. The most common symptoms were dry mouth, difficulty in speaking and swallowing, and change in voice quality. The 10 identified patients with botulism constitutes the largest-ever outbreak of botulism reported in Turkey to date. The present study shows the importance of considering a diagnosis of botulism soon after patients present with acute cranial nerve dysfunction and of promptly treating suspected cases with antitoxin.
Several fatal, progressive neurodegenerative diseases, including various prion and prion-like disorders, are connected with the misfolding of specific proteins. These proteins misfold into toxic oligomeric species and a spectrum of distinct self-templating amyloid structures, termed strains. Hence, small molecules that prevent or reverse these protein-misfolding events might have therapeutic utility. Yet it is unclear whether a single small molecule can antagonize the complete repertoire of misfolded forms encompassing diverse amyloid polymorphs and soluble oligomers. We have begun to investigate this issue using the yeast prion protein Sup35 as an experimental paradigm. We have discovered that a polyphenol, (-)epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), effectively inhibited the formation of infectious amyloid forms (prions) of Sup35 and even remodeled preassembled prions. Surprisingly, EGCG selectively modulated specific prion strains and even selected for EGCG-resistant prion strains with novel structural and biological characteristics. Thus, treatment with a single small molecule antagonist of amyloidogenesis can select for novel, drug-resistant amyloid polymorphs. Importantly, combining EGCG with another small molecule, 4,5-bis-(4-methoxyanilino)phthalimide, synergistically antagonized and remodeled a wide array of Sup35 prion strains without producing any drug-resistant prions. We suggest that minimal drug cocktails, small collections of drugs that collectively antagonize all amyloid polymorphs, should be identified to besiege various neurodegenerative disorders.
Oral cancer, represented mainly by oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), is the eighth most common type of human cancer worldwide. The number of new OSCC cases is increasing worldwide, especially in the low-income countries, and the prognosis remains poor in spite of recent advances in the diagnostic and therapeutic modalities. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), 18-25 nucleotides long noncoding RNA molecules, have recently gained significant attention as potential regulators and biomarkers for carcinogenesis. Recent data show that several miRNAs are deregulated in OSCC, and they have either a tumor suppressive or an oncogenic role in oral carcinogenesis. This review summarizes current knowledge on the role of miRNAs as tumor promotors or tumor suppressors in OSCC development and discusses their potential value as diagnostic and prognostic markers in OSCC.
The aim of this study was to investigate the genetic background of familial clustering of diabetes using genome-wide linkage analysis combined with exome sequencing. We recruited a Japanese family with a 3-generation history of diabetes. The family comprised 16 members, 13 having been diagnosed with diabetes. Nine members had been diagnosed before the age of 40. Linkage analysis was performed assuming an autosomal dominant model. Linkage regions were observed on chromosomes 4q34, 5q11-q13, and 12p11-q22 and the logarithm of odds (LOD) scores were 1.80. To identify the susceptibility variants, we performed exome sequencing of an affected family member. We predicted that the familial clustering of diabetes is caused by a rare non-synonymous variant, and focused our analysis on non-synonymous variants absent in dbSNP131. Exome sequencing identified 10 such variants in the linkage regions, 7 of which were concordant with the affection status in the family. One hundred five normal subjects and 67 lean diabetes subjects were genotyped for the 7 variants; the only variant found to be significantly more frequent in the diabetes subjects than in the normal subjects was the N1072K variant of the early endosome antigen 1 (EEA1) gene (0 in normal subjects and 4 in diabetes subjects, p=0.022). We therefore propose that the N1072K variant of the EEA1 gene is a candidate mutation for susceptibility to diabetes in the Japanese population.
PURPOSE: The recent introduction of anti-VEGF drugs has widely changed the prognosis of exudative age-related macular degeneration (AMD), even if a variable percentage of patients showed an insufficient response. Aflibercept is a new anti-VEGF drug approved by FDA for the treatment of exudative AMD with a wider binding capacity than either bevacizumab or ranibizumab. Therefore, the purposes were as follows: (i) to report anatomical and functional outcomes of switching from bevacizumab/ranibizumab to aflibercept previously described in the scientific literature, (ii) to hypothesize the possible pathophysiological mechanisms of the resistance and tachyphylaxis to anti-VEGF drugs, and (iii) to suggest possible clinical actions to increase the chances of success for such difficult cases. METHODS: We reviewed the available scientific literature in Medline, Cochrane database, Current Contents, PubMed, and cross-referencing from identified articles, regarding the treatment of exudative AMD patients refractory to bevacizumab and/or ranibizumab and switched to aflibercept monotherapy. We included in this review all the cases in which the diagnosis of refractory or resistant exudative AMD was properly made, and the results of at least one aflibercept injection were described. FINDINGS: We reported the outcomes of 21 papers for a total of 1066 eyes affected by exudative AMD resistant to previous anti-VEGF drug injections and switched to aflibercept. Enrolled reports were divided into two groups: 5 prospective reports and 16 retrospective reports. All the reported papers conclude their analysis, stating that switching from bevacizumab/ranibizumab to aflibercept injections can improve outcomes successfully in refractory neovascular AMD patients. IMPLICATIONS: Analysis of the papers reported in this review demonstrates that switching from bevacizumab/ranibizumab to aflibercept injections can improve outcomes successfully in refractory neovascular AMD patients. The mechanism for these effects is not yet completely understood.
BACKGROUND: Milk fat may contribute to atherogenesis in humans. OBJECTIVE: We sought to offset the atherogenic potential of milk fat by adding polyunsaturated fat and vitamin E to milk. DESIGN: We measured plasma lipids, lipoproteins, and tocopherol and LDL oxidation in normolipemic adults. In experiment 1 (n = 48), we compared delivery of 100 mg all-rac-alpha-tocopheryl acetate/d in capsules, skim milk, and 1%-fat milks containing soybean oil, milk fat, or both (1:1). In experiment 2 (n = 24), we compared delivery of natural (RRR-alpha-tocopheryl acetate) and synthetic (all-rac-alpha-tocopheryl acetate) vitamin E in milk with delivery of all-rac-alpha-tocopheryl acetate in orange juice (200 mg/d in each group). In experiment 3 (n = 7), we compared delivery of 30 mg all-rac-alpha-tocopheryl acetate/d in milks with and without added vitamins A and D. RESULTS: Enrichment of milk fat with soybean oil did not alter plasma lipoproteins. Microdispersion of vitamin E in milks increased the molar ratio of plasma tocopherol to cholesterol by >2-fold compared with the molar ratio after consuming vitamin E capsules, whereas the molar ratios were comparable after ingestion of orange juice and capsules. Synthetic and natural vitamin E performed comparably. The enhanced plasma vitamin E:cholesterol attributed to milk increased protection of LDL against oxidation. Vitamins A and D did not affect vitamin E delivery by milk. CONCLUSIONS: Milk augments vitamin E transport by human lipoproteins at intakes of 100-200 but not 30 mg/d. This augmentation is independent of the presence and type of fat in milk, its vitamin A and D contents, and whether the vitamin E is natural or synthetic.
Virus-like particles (VLPs) hold great promise for the development of effective and affordable vaccines. VLPs, indeed, are suitable for presentation and efficient delivery to antigen-presenting cells of linear as well as conformational antigens. This will ultimately result in a crosspresentation with both MHC class I and II molecules to prime CD4(+) T-helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells. This review describes an update on the development and use of VLPs as vaccine approaches for HIV.
Enhanced iodide ingestion is known to accelerate the incidence and severity of spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis [iodide-accelerated spontaneous autoimmune thyroiditis (ISAT)] in NOD.H2(h4) mice. CD4+ cells are required for the development and maintenance of ISAT, but their target epitopes remain unknown. In this study, we show that the previously identified thyroglobulin (Tg) T cell epitope p2549-2560 containing thyroxine at position 2553 (T4p2553) induces thyroiditis as well as strong specific T and B cell responses in NOD.H2(h4) mice. In ISAT, activated CD4+ T cells specific for T4p2553 are detected before the disease onset in thyroid-draining cervical lymph nodes only in mice placed on an iodide-rich diet and not in age-matched controls. In addition, selective enrichment of CD4+ IFN-gamma+ T4p2553-specific cells is observed among cervical lymph node cells and intrathyroidal lymphocytes. T4p2553 was equally detectable on dendritic cells obtained ex vivo from cervical lymph node cells of NaI-fed or control mice, suggesting that the iodide-rich diet contributes to the activation of autoreactive cells rather than the generation of the autoantigenic epitope. Furthermore, spontaneous T4p2553-specific IgG are not detectable within the strong Tg-specific autoantibody response. To our knowledge, these data identify for the first time a Tg T cell epitope as a spontaneous target in ISAT.
The addition of polylysine to a heavy fraction of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) vesicles produces a rapid Ca2+ release with no appreciable lag period. The polylysine concentration for half-maximal activation (C1/2) is approximately 0.99 micrograms/ml, or 0.3 microM, the lowest C 1/2 for Ca2+ release-inducing reagents reported in the literature. The time course and the [Ca2+] dependence of polylysine-induced release are similar to those of caffeine-induced Ca2+ release. At higher concentrations of polylysine (e.g., 10 micrograms/ml), however, little or no Ca2+ release occurs. Upon photolysis of SR vesicles with the photocrosslinkable radiolabeled polylysine derivative, [3H]succinimidyl azido benzoate polylysine, 0.28 and 0.52-1.2 mol polylysine were bound to 1 mol of the 400-kDa foot protein at activating (3 micrograms/ml) and inhibitory (10 micrograms/ml) concentrations of polylysine, respectively. On the other hand, the amounts of polylysine bound to the other SR proteins (mol/mol) were negligible (e.g., less than or equal to 0.0127 mol polylysine/mol calsequestrin). This suggests that the binding of polylysine to the foot protein is responsible not only for the induction of release but also for inactivation. These results provide direct evidence that the receptor for the chemical trigger of Ca2+ release is localized within the foot protein. Ruthenium red, which inhibits polylysine-induced Ca2+ release, does not inhibit polylysine binding to the foot protein, suggesting that the polylysine binding domain of the foot protein is different from the channel domain.
All retroviruses require both unspliced and spliced RNA for a productive infection. One mechanism by which Rous sarcoma virus achieves incomplete splicing involves suboptimal env and src 3' splice sites. We have previously shown that mutagenesis of the nonconsensus src polypyrimidine tract to a 14-nucleotide uninterrupted polypyrimidine tract results in an oversplicing phenotype and a concomitant defective replication in permissive chicken embryo fibroblasts. In this report, we show that splicing at the src 3' splice site (3'ss) is further negatively regulated by the suppressor of src splicing cis element which is located approximately 100 nucleotides upstream of the src 3'ss. The increase in splicing at the src 3'ss results in a corresponding increase in splicing at a cryptic 5'ss within the env gene. Two classes of replication-competent revertants of the src oversplicing mutant (pSAP1) were produced after infection, and these mutants were characterized by molecular cloning and sequence analysis. Class I revertants are transformation-defective revertants in which the src 3'ss and the src gene are deleted by homologous recombination at several different sites within the imperfect direct repeat sequences that flank the src gene. Cells infected with these transformation-defective revertants produce lower levels of virus particles than cells infected with the wild-type virus. Class II revertants bear small deletions in the region containing the branchpoint sequence or polypyrimidine tract of the src 3'ss. Insertion of these mutated sequences into pSAP1 restored inefficient splicing at the src 3'ss and efficient replication in chicken embryo fibroblasts. All of these mutations caused reduced splicing at the src 3'ss when they were tested in an in vitro splicing system. These results indicate that maintenance of a weak src 3'ss is necessary for efficient Rous sarcoma virus replication.
FAT10 is the only ubiquitin-like modifier that can target proteins for degradation by the proteasome in a ubiquitin-independent manner. The degradation of FAT10-linked proteins by the proteasome is strongly accelerated by the ubiquitin-like-ubiquitin-associated protein NEDD8 ultimate buster-1 long (NUB1L). Here we show how FAT10 and NUB1L dock with the 26S proteasome to initiate proteolysis. We identify the 26S proteasome subunit hRpn10/S5a as the receptor for FAT10, whereas NUB1L can bind to both Rpn10 and Rpn1/S2. Unexpectedly, FAT10 and NUB1L both interact with hRpn10 via the VWA domain. FAT10 degradation in yeast shows that human Rpn10 can functionally reconstitute Rpn10-deficient yeast and that the VWA domain of hRpn10 suffices to enable FAT10 degradation. Depletion of hRpn10 causes an accumulation of FAT10-conjugates also in human cells. In conclusion, we identify the VWA domain of hRpn10 as a receptor for ubiquitin-like proteins within the 26S proteasome and elucidate how FAT10 mediates efficient proteolysis by the proteasome.
The proliferation and differentiation of muscle precursor cells require myogenic regulatory factors and chromatin modifiers whose concerted action dynamically regulates access to DNA and allows reprogramming of cells towards terminal differentiation. Type 2 deiodinase (D2), the thyroid hormone (TH)-activating enzyme, is sharply upregulated during myoblast differentiation, whereas type 3 deiodinase (D3), the TH-inactivating enzyme, is downregulated. The molecular determinants controlling synchronized D2 and D3 expression in muscle differentiation are completely unknown. Here, we report that the histone H3 demethylating enzyme (LSD-1) is essential for transcriptional induction of D2 and repression of D3. LSD-1 relieves the repressive marks (H3-K9me2-3) on the Dio2 promoter and the activation marks (H3-K4me2-3) on the Dio3 promoter. LSD-1 silencing impairs the D2 surge in skeletal muscle differentiation while inducing D3 expression thereby leading to a global decrease in intracellular TH production. Furthermore, endogenous LSD-1 interacts with FoxO3a, and abrogation of FoxO3-DNA binding compromises the ability of LSD-1 to induce D2. Our data reveal a novel epigenetic control of reciprocal deiodinases expression and provide a molecular mechanism by which LSD-1, through the opposite regulation of D2 and D3 expression, acts as a molecular switch that dynamically finely tunes the cellular needs of active TH during myogenesis.
Myoepithelioma of breast are extremely rare. We report two cases of pure malignant myoepithelioma of the breast, utilising light microscopic and immunohistochemical methods for diagnosis. Both the cases presented as breast lump. Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) stained microscopic sections revealed a predominantly spindle cell tumor. Immunohistochemical work up was done. Case number one expressed positivity for vimentin, Smooth Muscle Actin (SMA), S-100 and CD10. Case number two expressed positivity for Vimentin, CD10 and p63. This led to the diagnoses of malignant myoepithelioma in both of them. Documentation of such cases prospectively and from archival material, using immunohistochemistry, is of extreme importance to assess the prevalence, various phenotypic patterns, long-term biological behaviour and to establish management protocols for malignant myoepithelioma.
Tissue engineering in the peripheral nervous system unites efforts by physicians, engineers, and biologists toward a common goal to create either natural or synthetic tubular nerve guidance channels as alternatives to nerve autografts for the repair of peripheral nerve defects. Guidance channels help direct axons sprouting from the regenerating nerve end, provide a conduit for diffusion of neurotropic and neurotrophic factors secreted by the damaged nerve stumps, and minimize infiltration of fibrous tissue. In addition to efforts to control these physical characteristics of nerve guidance channels, researchers are optimizing the incorporation of biologic factors and engineering interactive biomaterial that can specifically stimulate the regeneration process. It is believed that current and future research will ultimately result in biologically active and interactive nerve guidance channels that can support and enhance peripheral nerve regeneration over longer, more clinically relevant defect lengths.
Water channel proteins, aquaporins, are integral membrane proteins serving in the permeation of water and some other small molecules. Eleven isoforms of aquaporins have been identified from various tissues to date. They are expressed in tissue- and cell-specific manners, and are closely related to the specific functions of tissues and cells. Aquaporins are usually localized to the plasma membrane. Some isoforms are present in cytoplasmic compartments, and their translocation to the plasma membrane is crucial in the regulation of water transfer. This review focuses on the localization of aquaporins in mammalian tissues and discusses the physiological importance of water channels.
All members of the human herpesvirus protease (HHV Pr) family are active as weakly associating dimers but inactive as monomers. A small-molecule allosteric inhibitor of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus protease (KSHV Pr) traps the enzyme in an inactive monomeric state where the C-terminal helices are unfolded and the hydrophobic dimer interface is exposed. NMR titration studies demonstrate that the inhibitor binds to KSHV Pr monomers with low micromolar affinity. A 2.0-A-resolution X-ray crystal structure of a C-terminal truncated KSHV Pr-inhibitor complex locates the binding pocket at the dimer interface and displays significant conformational perturbations at the active site, 15 A from the allosteric site. NMR and CD data suggest that the small molecule inhibits human cytomegalovirus protease via a similar mechanism. As all HHV Prs are functionally and structurally homologous, the inhibitor represents a class of compounds that may be developed into broad-spectrum therapeutics that allosterically regulate enzymatic activity by disrupting protein-protein interactions.
Identification of molecular targets for novel therapeutics is a natural consequence of the age of molecular and personalized medicine. How this information is leveraged and applied to the treatment of functional diseases/disorders of the lower urinary tract will determine if this field of medicine can keep pace with technological developments and patient expectations for improved therapies. In this regard, therapeutic improvements for the treatment of lower urinary tract diseases and disorders have been largely incremental over the past 30 years. The goal of this report is to review the evidence pointing toward the enormous potential of gene therapy/transfer to provide a paradigm shift from palliative to curative therapeutic solutions for lower urinary tract diseases/disorders. In fact, it seems clear that gene therapy represents a biotechnology approach particularly suitable to applications in the lower urinary tract. Although much more research is required, ample preclinical evidence already indicates that, for example, gene therapy can favorably impact/alter virtually every aspect of bladder physiology/function. In short, further investigations and continued applications of gene therapy to the treatment of lower urinary tract diseases/disorders seems a prudent step toward potentially marked and more durable therapeutic improvements.
There is a growing recognition that the coordinated timing of behavioral, physiologic, and metabolic circadian rhythms is a requirement for a healthy body and mind. In mammals, the primary circadian oscillator is the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which is responsible for circadian coordination throughout the organism. Temporal homeostasis is recognized as a complex interplay between rhythmic clock gene expression in brain regions outside the SCN and in peripheral organs. Abnormalities in this intricate circadian orchestration may alter sleep patterns and contribute to the pathophysiology of affective disorders.
The cardiovascular complications of obesity have prompted interest in dietary interventions to reduce weight, including low-carbohydrate diets that are generally high in protein and fat. However, little is known about the long-term effects of these diets on vascular health. We examined the cardiovascular effects of a low-carbohydrate, high-protein diet (LCHP) in the ApoE(-/-) mouse model of atherosclerosis and in a model of ischemia-induced neovascularization. Mice on a LCHP were compared with mice maintained on either the standard chow diet (SC) or the Western diet (WD) which contains comparable fat and cholesterol to the LCHP. LCHP-fed mice developed more aortic atherosclerosis and had an impaired ability to generate new vessels in response to tissue ischemia. These changes were not explained by alterations in serum cholesterol, inflammatory mediators or infiltrates, or oxidative stress. The LCHP diet substantially reduced the number of bone marrow and peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs), a marker of vascular regenerative capacity. EPCs from mice on a LCHP diet also manifest lower levels of activated (phosphorylated) Akt, a serine-threonine kinase important in EPC mobilization, proliferation, and survival. Taken together, these data demonstrate that in animal models LCHP diets have adverse vascular effects not reflected in serum markers and that nonlipid macronutrients can modulate vascular progenitor cells and pathophysiology.
Primary high-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma of the female genital tract is extremely rare. Vaginal bleeding, abdominal pain or urinary complaints might be its most frequent symptoms. We report a 27-year-old multipara who underwent large loop excision of the transformation zone because of the repeated finding of a low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion identified during routine cancer screening. Incidentally, CD20-positive, primary, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma infiltrating the mucosa of the endocervix was also diagnosed from this specimen. The case is unusual because the patient had no symptoms, specific colposcopic signs or visible mass. R-CHOP 21 immunochemotherapy was introduced and resulted in complete remission without hysterectomy. The patient is without any evidence of disease after 49 months of follow-up. Primary cervical lymphomas are mainly subepithelial initially, and therefore they may be under-recognized due to the inefficiency of smears to diagnose such lesions. Early diagnosis and available targeted treatment allowed a cure in the reported example.
The association (adherence) between human corneocytes and arthroconidia of Trichophyton mentagrophytes strains 121 and 126, and T. interdigitale strain 4 was studied in vitro. Adherence of arthroconidia to corneocytes from either the palm and sole occurred and increased with time up to 6 h, by which time germination of arthroconidia had started. Significant differences were seen between the T. mentagrophytes strains and T. interdigitale in their adherence to corneocytes from the palm. When adherence values for plantar corneocytes were compared, significant differences were found between T. mentagrophytes and T. interdigitale. Not all corneocytes from either site had adherent arthroconidia, although there was a time-dependent increase in the numbers of corneocytes with adherent fungal cells. By scanning and transmission electron microscopy it was seen that there was a loose association between arthroconidia and corneocytes with no apparent damage to the corneocyte membrane. Adherence of germlings of T. interdigitale to corneocytes from the palm appeared to be mediated by germling outer cell wall fibrils. Hyphal branches and secondary germlings were observed to enhance the attachment of the parent hypha to adjacent corneocytes.
BACKGROUND: Identification of protein structural cores requires isolation of sets of proteins all sharing a same subset of structural motifs. In the context of an ever growing number of available 3D protein structures, standard and automatic clustering algorithms require adaptations so as to allow for efficient identification of such sets of proteins. RESULTS: When considering a pair of 3D structures, they are stated as similar or not according to the local similarities of their matching substructures in a structural alignment. This binary relation can be represented in a graph of similarities where a node represents a 3D protein structure and an edge states that two 3D protein structures are similar. Therefore, classifying proteins into structural families can be viewed as a graph clustering task. Unfortunately, because such a graph encodes only pairwise similarity information, clustering algorithms may include in the same cluster a subset of 3D structures that do not share a common substructure. In order to overcome this drawback we first define a ternary similarity on a triple of 3D structures as a constraint to be satisfied by the graph of similarities. Such a ternary constraint takes into account similarities between pairwise alignments, so as to ensure that the three involved protein structures do have some common substructure. We propose hereunder a modification algorithm that eliminates edges from the original graph of similarities and gives a reduced graph in which no ternary constraints are violated. Our approach is then first to build a graph of similarities, then to reduce the graph according to the modification algorithm, and finally to apply to the reduced graph a standard graph clustering algorithm. Such method was used for classifying ASTRAL-40 non-redundant protein domains, identifying significant pairwise similarities with Yakusa, a program devised for rapid 3D structure alignments. CONCLUSIONS: We show that filtering similarities prior to standard graph based clustering process by applying ternary similarity constraints i) improves the separation of proteins of different classes and consequently ii) improves the classification quality of standard graph based clustering algorithms according to the reference classification SCOP.
Heterotrimeric G proteins of the Galpha(i) family have been implicated in signaling pathways regulating cell migration in immune diseases. The Galpha(i)-protein-coupled C5a receptor is a critical regulator of IgG FcR function in experimental models of immune complex (IC)-induced inflammation. By using mice deficient for Galpha(i2) or Galpha(i3), we show that Galpha(i2) is necessary for neutrophil influx in skin and lung Arthus reactions and agonist-induced neutrophilia in the peritoneum, whereas Galpha(i3) plays a less critical but variable role. Detailed analyses of the pulmonary IC-induced inflammatory response revealed several shared functions of Galpha(i2) and Galpha(i3), including mediating C5a anaphylatoxin receptor-induced activation of macrophages, involvement in alveolar production of chemokines, transition of neutrophils from bone marrow into blood, and modulation of CD11b and CD62L expression that account for neutrophil adhesion to endothelial cells. Interestingly, C5a-stimulated endothelial polymorphonuclear neutrophil transmigration, but not chemotaxis, is enhanced versus reduced in the absence of neutrophil Galpha(i3) or Galpha(i2), respectively, and knockdown of endothelial Galpha(i2) caused decreased transmigration of wild-type neutrophils. These data demonstrate that Galpha(i2) and Galpha(i3) contribute to inflammation by redundant, overlapping, and Galpha(i)-isoform-specific mechanisms, with Galpha(i2) exhibiting unique functions in both neutrophils and endothelial cells that appear essential for polymorphonuclear neutrophil recruitment in IC disease.
BACKGROUND: High-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) infections are causally related to cervical cancer development. The additional (epi)genetic alterations driving malignant transformation of hrHPV-infected cells however, are not yet fully elucidated. In this study we experimentally assessed the role of the PI3-kinase pathway and its regulator PIK3CA, which is frequently altered in cervical cancer, in HPV-induced transformation. METHODS: Cervical carcinomas and ectocervical controls were assessed for PIK3CA mRNA and protein expression by quantitative RT-PCR and immunohistochemical staining, respectively. A longitudinal in vitro model system of hrHPV-transfected keratinocytes, representing the immortal and anchorage independent phenotype, was assayed for PI3-kinase activation and function using chemical pathway inhibition i.e. LY294002 treatment, and PIK3CA RNA interference. Phenotypes examined included cellular viability, migration, anchorage independent growth and differentiation. mRNA expression of hTERT and HPV16 E6E7 were studied using quantitative RT-PCR and Northern blotting. RESULTS: Cervical carcinomas showed significant overexpression of PIK3CA compared to controls. During HPV-induced transformation in vitro, expression of the catalytic subunit PIK3CA as well as activation of downstream effector PKB/AKT progressively increased in parallel. Inhibition of PI3-kinase signalling in HPV16-transfected keratinocytes by chemical interference or siRNA-mediated silencing of PIK3CA resulted in a decreased phosphorylation of PKB/AKT. Moreover, blockage of PI3-kinase resulted in reduced cellular viability, migration, and anchorage independent growth. These properties were accompanied with a downregulation of HPV16E7 and hTERT mRNA expression. In organotypic raft cultures of HPV16- and HPV18-immortalized cells, phosphorylated PKB/AKT was primarily seen in differentiated cells staining positive for cytokeratin 10 (CK10). Upon PI3-kinase signalling inhibition, there was a severe impairment in epithelial tissue development as well as a dramatic reduction in p-PKB/AKT and CK10. CONCLUSION: The present data indicate that activation of the PI3-kinase/PKB/AKT pathway through PIK3CA regulates various transformed phenotypes as well as growth and differentiation of HPV-immortalized cells and may therefore play a pivotal role in HPV-induced carcinogenesis.
Hedgehog (Hh) signaling plays an important role in the oncogenesis of B-cell malignancies such as multiple myeloma (MM). However, the source of Hh ligand sonic hedgehog (SHH) and its target cells remains controversial. Previous studies showed that stromally induced Hh signaling is essential for the tumor cells and that CD19(+)CD138(-) MM stem cells are the target cells of Hh signaling. Here we demonstrate that SHH was mainly secreted by human myeloma cells but not by stromal cells in MM bone marrow. Autocrine SHH enhanced CD138(+) myeloma cell proliferation and protected myeloma cells from spontaneous and stress-induced apoptosis. More importantly, autocrine SHH protected myeloma cells against chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Combinational treatment with chemotherapy and SHH-neutralizing antibody displayed synergistic antimyeloma effects. Mechanistic studies showed that SHH signaling activated the SHH/GLI1/BCL-2 axis, leading to the inhibition of myeloma cell apoptosis. Thus, this study identifies the myeloma autocrine Hh signaling pathway as a potential target for the treatment of MM. Targeting this pathway may improve the efficacy of chemotherapy in MM patients.
Two proposed mechanisms for 4-thiouridine generation share key cysteine persulfide and disulfide intermediates, and indirect evidence of their existence has been previously reported; chemical trapping and mass spectrometry have now provided direct and definitive evidence of these key intermediates.
BACKGROUND: A yeast strain lacking the two genes SSA1 and SSA2, which encode cytosolic molecular chaperones, acquires thermotolerance as well as the mild heat-shocked wild-type yeast strain. We investigated the genomic response at the level of mRNA expression to the deletion of SSA1/2 in comparison with the mild heat-shocked wild-type using cDNA microarray. RESULTS: Yeast cDNA microarray analysis revealed that genes involved in the stress response, including molecular chaperones, were up-regulated in a similar manner in both the ssa1/2 deletion mutant and the mild heat-shocked wild-type. Genes involved in protein synthesis were up-regulated in the ssa1/2 deletion mutant, but were markedly suppressed in the mild heat-shocked wild-type. The genes involved in ubiquitin-proteasome protein degradation were also up-regulated in the ssa1/2 deletion mutant, whereas the unfolded protein response (UPR) genes were highly expressed in the mild heat-shocked wild-type. RT-PCR confirmed that the genes regulating protein synthesis and cytosolic protein degradation were up-regulated in the ssa1/2 deletion mutant. At the translational level, more ubiquitinated proteins and proteasomes were detected in the ssa1/2 deletion mutant, than in the wild-type, confirming that ubiquitin-proteasome protein degradation was up-regulated by the deletion of SSA1/2. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the mechanism for rescue of denatured proteins in the ssa1/2 deletion mutant is different from that in the mild heat-shocked wild-type: Activated protein synthesis in the ssa1/2 deletion mutant supplies a deficiency of proteins by their degradation, whereas mild heat-shock induces UPR.
Comparative developmental studies have revealed a rich array of details about the patterns and processes of morphological change in animals and increasingly in plants. But, applying these insights to the study of major episodes of evolutionary innovation requires understanding how these novel morphologies become established and sufficiently abundant (either as individuals within a species or as a clade of species) to be preserved in the fossil record, and, in many cases, to influence ecological processes. Evolutionary novelties may: (1) disappear without changing the species; (2) be associated with the generation (through selection or drift) of a new species; and if the latter (3) may or may not become ecologically significant. Only the latter are commonly preserved in the fossil record. These alternatives mirror the distinction among historians of technology between innovation and invention. Here, I argue that specific sorts of evolutionary inventions drive ecological transformation, essentially constructing an environment for themselves and ancillary organisms through ecological spillover effects, increasing the "carrying capacity" of an ecosystem.
Dermatoglyphic is the study of the epidermal ridges and the pattern formed by them. It may be pointed out that genetic factors have a large share in determining the variations in dermatoglyphics. It is however, suggested by evidence that bipolar mood disorder factors are determined more by genetic factors than by the environmental factors. The experiment has been undertaken to look for the effects of the bipolar mood disorder on dermatoglyphics. The dermatoglyphic characteristics of subjects with bipolar mood disorder when compared with control group revealed significant differences. The radial loop were increased in bipolar mood disorder, but there were little changes in 'atd' angles between normal and bipolar mood disorder.
We performed the first genome-wide expression analysis to compare the differences in gene expression in the female sperm reservoir of the duck reproductive tract between two groups with long and short fertile periods to identify factors that may be associated with the fertile period using an oligonucleotide microarray. RNA was extracted from the uterovaginal junction (UV junction) of the two groups. Affymetrix chips containing comprehensive coverage of 32773 transcripts were hybridized with biotin-labeled cRNA, and three biological repeats were performed. We identified 27 transcripts as being differentially regulated. Interestingly, by mapping the differentially expressed transcripts to annotated pathways, we found that Neuropeptide Y (NPY), the RNA expression of which was increased by 2.96-fold in the short-fertile-period group as compared with the long-fertile-period group in our experiment, has been shown to reduce blood flow and substance supply to local tissues. Enah/Vasp-like (EVL), the RNA expression of which was significantly increased by 1.77-fold in the short-fertile-period group as compared with the long-period group, has been demonstrated to be important in activated T-cells. In contrast, trafficking kinesin-binding protein 1 (TRAK1), the expression of which was increased by 2.33-fold in the long-period group as compared with its counterparts, has been suggested to inhibit precocious activation of sperm and prolong sperm life in the female sperm reservoir. The results of real-time PCR confirmed the data obtained by microarray analysis. Our study demonstrated that combining global gene expression investigation with annotated pathway resources contributes to the understanding of sperm life when sustained in the UV junction.
Protanomaly is a common, X-linked abnormality of color vision. Like people with normal color vision, protanomalous observers are trichromatic, but their ability to discriminate colors in the red-green part of the spectrum is reduced because the photopigments that mediate discrimination in this range are abnormally similar. Whereas normal subjects have pigments whose wavelengths of peak sensitivity differ by about 30 nm, the peak wavelengths for protanomalous observers are thought to differ by only a few nanometers. We found, however, that although this difference occurred in some protanomalous subjects, others had pigments whose peak wavelengths were identical. Genetic and psychophysical results from the latter class indicated that limited red-green discrimination can be achieved with pigments that have the same peak wavelength sensitivity and that differ only in optical density. A single amino acid substitution was correlated with trichromacy in these subjects, suggesting that differences in pigment sequence may regulate the optical density of the cone.
In the last five decades, there have been vast advances in the field of biomaterials, including ceramics, glasses, glass-ceramics and metal alloys. Dense and porous ceramics have been widely used for various biomedical applications. Current applications of bioceramics include bone grafts, spinal fusion, bone repairs, bone fillers, maxillofacial reconstruction, etc. Amongst the various calcium phosphate compositions, hydroxyapatite, which has a composition similar to human bone, has attracted wide interest. Much emphasis is given to tissue engineering, both in porous and dense ceramic forms. The current review focusses on the various applications of dense hydroxyapatite and other dense biomaterials on the aspects of transparency and the mechanical and electrical behavior. Prospective future applications, established along the aforesaid applications of hydroxyapatite, appear to be promising regarding bone bonding, advanced medical treatment methods, improvement of the mechanical strength of artificial bone grafts and better in vitro/in vivo methodologies to afford more particular outcomes.
The 5-, 12-, and 15-lipoxygenases contain a highly conserved sequence of the form His-(X)4-His-(X)4-His-(X)17-His-(X)8-His which represents a potential binding site for non heme iron to the protein. The importance of selected amino acids within this His cluster for the activity of human 5-lipoxygenase was investigated by site-directed mutagenesis using bacteria and insect cells expression systems. After single mutation of each of the 5 His residues at positions 363, 368, 373, 391, and 400 by Ser, Cys, or Lys, measurable levels of 5-lipoxygenase activity could be recovered in Escherichia coli only for the Ser363 and Cys363 mutants, with most amino acid substitutions causing a decrease in the levels of expression of the soluble protein. In contrast, 25-80% of soluble 5-lipoxygenase activity was recovered after the replacement of several of the hydrophobic amino acids in this region: Tyr384 by Ser or Phe; Phe394 by Trp and Val375 by Ala. Met436 could be replaced by Leu with little effect on 5-lipoxygenase activity or turnover inactivation half-time. High levels of mutant 5-lipoxygenases containing a Ser residue instead of His at each of the five positions were also expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells infected with recombinant baculovirus. The specific activity (58-75% of control) and the reaction time course of the Ser363, Ser391, and Ser400 mutants were comparable with that of native 5-lipoxygenase whereas inactive proteins were obtained for the Ser368 and Ser373 mutants. These results show that His368 and His373 residues are important for 5-lipoxygenase activity and that the other conserved His363, His391, His400, and Met436 residues are not crucial for the catalytic cycle or for the mechanism of self-inactivation of 5-lipoxygenase.
The study of molecular adaptation has long been fraught with difficulties, not the least of which is identifying out of hundreds of amino acid replacements those few directly responsible for major adaptations. Six studies are used to illustrate how phylogenies, site-directed mutagenesis, and a knowledge of protein structure combine to provide much deeper insights into the adaptive process than has hitherto been possible. Ancient genes can be reconstructed, and the phenotypes can be compared to modern proteins. Out of hundreds of amino acid replacements accumulated over billions of years those few responsible for discriminating between alternative substrates are identified. An amino acid replacement of modest effect at the molecular level causes a dramatic expansion in an ecological niche. These and other topics are creating the emerging field of "paleomolecular biochemistry."
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression and correlation of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4) in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and the relationship with clinicopathological features and prognosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expression of TGF-beta1 and FGFR4 in 126 HCC samples was detected immunohistochemically. Combined with clinical postoperative follow-up data, the expression of TGF-beta1 and FGFR4 in HCC and the relationship with the prognosis of patients were analyzed by statistically. RESULTS: The positive expression rate of TGF-beta1 was 84.1% (106/126) in tumors, and that in peritumoral liver tissues was 64.3% (81/126); the positive expression rate of FGFR4 in tumors was 74.6% (94/126) and that in peritumoral liver tissues was 57.1% (72/126). The expression of TGF-beta1 and FGFR4 in the carcinoma tissues was significantly higher than that in peritumoral liver tissues (p < 0.05). Intratumoral TGF-beta1 and FGFR4 expression was associated with TNM stage (p < 0.05). TGF-beta1 and FGFR4 expression levels didn't significantly correlate with other clinicopathological parameters, including age, sex, tumor size, serum AFP level, tumor differentiation, lymph node metastasis, etc. (p > 0.05). TGF-beta1 expression was positively correlated with FGFR4 expression (r = 0.595, p < 0.05). Patients with positive FGFR4 or TGF-beta1 expression had shorter overall survival compared with negative expression (p < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: The expression of TGF-beta1 and FGFR4 could make synergy on the occurrence and progression of HCC, and may be used as prognosis indicators for HCC patients.
BACKGROUND: The mechanisms of ischemic stroke in young adults are poorly understood. The main goal of the current investigation was to determine the possible contribution of genes affecting hemostasis, homocysteine metabolism and endothelial function on the occurrence of ischemic stroke in a cohort of young cases and corresponding controls. METHODS: We evaluated in 97 consecutive patients referred to our center between April 2006 and July 2007 for a history of young adult ischemic stroke (age at first event, <45 y) the prevalence of factor V Leiden, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) 4ab gene variants. Ninety-nine subjects age and gender matched (18 to 45 y) from other departments of the Tiantan Hospital served as controls. RESULTS: Homozygosity for the TT genotype of the MTHFR gene was 29 of 97 (29.9%) in patients and 34 of 99 (34.3%) in controls; this difference was not statistically significant (p>0.05, chi2). Variation of factor V Leiden was not detected both in patients and in controls of this cohort. Genotype eNOS 4bb was 90 of 97 (92.8%) in patients and 81 of 99 (81.8%) in controls; this difference was statistically significant (p<0.05, chi2 test). CONCLUSIONS: The eNOS 4ab variant appears to be an important risk factor for ischemic stroke in young Chinese population.
The immunogenicity of biological therapeutic products is currently a high profile regulatory and biotechnology industry issue. The immune responses raised against biotechnology products range from the benign, to affecting product efficacy, to those that have serious deleterious clinical impact. The most widely used marker of immunogenicity is the detection and measurement of antibody responses induced in vivo to a product. This relies on assays that are sensitive and robust. In order to assess the parameters of an assay during its design, development and validation, it is extremely useful to have a reference standard to compare assay results. However, immune responses lead to polyclonal antibody preparations that can vary by affinity and avidity. This makes it extremely difficult to select a preparation that will behave similarly in different test systems and against different antibody samples. The case example of the WHO standardization of islet cell antibodies illustrates the difficulties in the process and the mechanisms required to produce a suitable antibody standard.
The purpose of this study was to identify essential genes involved in myocardial growth and remodeling following myocardial infarction (MI). Left ventricular noninfarcted tissues from six mice subjected to MI under general anesthesia and from six sham-operated mice were obtained 1 wk after primary surgery and analyzed by means of cDNA filter arrays. Out of a total of 1,176 genes, 641 were consistently expressed, twenty-three were upregulated and thirteen downregulated. Five genes were only expressed following MI. Syndecan-3, a transmembranous heparan sulfate proteoglycan, was found to be upregulated together with a transcriptional activator of syndecans, Wilms tumor protein 1 (WT-1). Northern blotting demonstrated a significant upregulation of syndecan-1, -2, -3, and -4, WT-1, fibronectin, and basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor 1. Furthermore, Western blot analysis showed statistically significant increases in protein levels for syndecan-3 and -4. In conclusion, we have identified a subset of genes with increased expression in noninfarcted left ventricular tissue following MI, including syndecans 1-4, WT-1, fibronectin, collagen 6A, and FGF receptor 1. Since the syndecans link the cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix and function as required coreceptors for FGF, we suggest a role for the syndecans in cardiac remodeling following MI.
Tissue slices represent a useful in vitro method for metabolic, pharmacologic and toxicologic studies. To their major advantage belong preserved cell to cell interactions, architecture and complexity of the tissue. They enable to reduce the number of laboratory animals, that are necessary for research purposes. Tissue slices are more similar to in vivo situation than other in vitro models such as microsomes, cell suspensions or cell cultures. Slices can be cultured up to 72 hours or even more. Preparation of the slices is rapid and easy. Slices can be prepared from any organ. There is a possibility of cross-species comparison, co-culturing of slices derived from different organs. Excess of the material can be cryopreserved for later studies.
Extracting DNA directly from micro-organisms living in soil is a crucial step for the molecular analysis of soil microbial communities. However, the use of a plethora of different soil DNA extraction protocols, each with its own bias, makes accurate data comparison difficult. To overcome this problem, a method for soil DNA extraction was proposed to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 2006. This method was evaluated by 13 independent European laboratories actively participating in national and international ring tests. The reproducibility of the standardized method for molecular analyses was evaluated by comparing the amount of DNA extracted, as well as the abundance and genetic structure of the total bacterial community in the DNA extracted from 12 different soils by the 13 laboratories. High quality DNA was successfully extracted from all 12 soils, despite different physical and chemical characteristics and a range of origins from arable soils, through forests to industrial sites. Quantification of the 16S rRNA gene abundances by real time PCR and analysis of the total bacterial community structure by automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (A-RISA) showed acceptable to good levels of reproducibility. Based on the results of both ring-tests, the method was unanimously approved by the ISO as an international standard method and the normative protocol will now be disseminated within the scientific community. Standardization of a soil DNA extraction method will improve data comparison, facilitating our understanding of soil microbial diversity and soil quality monitoring.
Hypoxia has historically been relevant to radiation oncology as it relates to radioresistance, poor response to therapy and unfavorable patient's outcome in many solid tumors. In that regard, the recent advances in imaging, computation and radiation delivery techniques have been offering new perspectives to prescribe and deliver radiation dose in accordance with the spatial distribution of hypoxia mapped with molecular or functional imaging modalities, i.e., the so-called dose painting (DP). At first glance, the concept of dose painting appears promising and let foresee likely improvement in tumor local control at an acceptable clinical cost. However, adapting radiotherapy planning and delivery according to hypoxia imaging implicitly assumes: 1) that the imaging variable actually correlates with a local biological property associated with individual therapy outcome; 2) that the spatial distribution of the imaging parameter can be adequately converted into dose; and 3) that an irradiation device can actually deliver such a heterogeneous dose in fractionated RT treatments. In that regard, many uncertainties and difficulties remain at each step of the DP process, mainly related to the limitations of the current imaging techniques and the treatment fractionation. This paper will thus review the state of the art of DP with a specific focus on hypoxia, going from cancer biology to adaptive dose delivery. It will address the technological challenges and the clinical validation, which are both essential to translate an intuitively appealing concept into a clinically meaningful practice.
A Diels-Alder reaction, a desymmetrizing aldol reaction, and a reductive Heck cyclization are employed in a short synthesis of a tetracycle relevant to exiguaquinol, a potential antibiotic. Ground-state energies of this advanced model system and the natural product rationalize the incorrect hemiaminal configuration experimentally obtained and point to the importance of the sulfonate in dictating the relative configuration of the natural product.
Understanding the genetic basis of variation in traits related to growth and fillet quality in Atlantic salmon is of importance to the aquaculture industry. Several growth-related QTL have been identified via the application of genetic markers. The IGF1 gene is considered a highly conserved and crucial growth-regulating gene in salmonid species. However, the association between polymorphisms in the IGF1 gene and growth-related traits in Atlantic salmon is unknown. Therefore, in this study, regions of the Atlantic salmon IGF1 gene were sequenced, aligned and compared across individuals. Three SNPs were identified in the putative promoter (SNP1, g.5763G>T; GenBank no. AGKD01012745), intron 1 (SNP2, g.7292C>T; GenBank no. AGKD01012745) and intron 3 (SNP3, g.4671A>C; GenBank no. AGKD01133398) regions respectively. These SNPs were genotyped in a population of 4800 commercial Atlantic salmon with data on several weight and fillet traits measured at harvest (at approximately 3 years of age). In a mixed model, association analysis of individual SNPs, SNP1 and SNP3 were both significantly associated with several weight traits (P < 0.05). The estimated additive effect on overall harvest weight was approximately 35 and 110 g for SNPs 1 and 3 respectively. A haplotype analysis confirmed the association between genetic variation in the IGF1 gene with overall body weight (P < 0.05) and fillet component traits (P < 0.05). Our findings suggest the identified nucleotide polymorphisms of the IGF1 gene may either affect farmed Atlantic salmon growth directly or be in population-wide linkage disequilibrium with causal variation, highlighting their possible utility as candidates for marker-assisted selection in the aquaculture industry.
The pathway of production, secretion, and extracellular deposition of type I collagen and osteonectin was studied by immunoelectron microscopy using respective polyclonal antibodies. Protein A gold and immunogold methods yielded to similar results in human callus tissue used as a model of bone formation. The intracellular distribution of osteonectin in active osteoblasts is found as a faint immunolabeling of vesicular Golgi fields and some lamellae of rough endoplasmic reticulum. A more intensive labeling occurs in opaque cytoplasmic vesicles pointing to the process of secretion as some of the vesicles are connected with the basal cell membrane. Our type I collagen antibody did not label the respective intracellular compartments. Extracellularly, the type I collagen antibody showed a continuous labeling from the immature subcellular osteoid to the mineralized bone. Osteonectin antibodies were bound first to the deeper layer of osteoid maturation with intensity increasing below the mineralization front. Osteonectin is thought to be associated with mineralization of bone matrix.
BACKGROUND: The development of molecular strategies for the treatment of restenosis has been hindered by low efficiencies of in vivo arterial transfection. Expression of intracellular marker proteins is generally evident in < 1% of vascular smooth muscle cells after in vivo arterial transfection. Efforts to improve the efficiency of in vivo gene transfer have been further impeded by the use of transgenes encoding for intracellular marker proteins, necessitating tissue removal and limiting survey for expression to one point in time. METHODS AND RESULTS: To study gene expression on a serial basis in vivo and determine the relation between a secreted gene product and transfection efficiency after in vivo arterial gene transfer, a method for performing and serially monitoring gene expression in vivo was developed using the central artery of the rabbit ear. Liposome-mediated transfection of plasmid DNA containing the gene for human growth hormone (hGH) was successfully performed in 18 of 23 arteries. Serum hGH levels measured 5 days after transfection ranged from 0.1 to 3.8 ng/mL (mean, 0.97 ng/mL); in contrast, serum drawn from the control arteries demonstrated no evidence of hGH production. Serial measurement of hGH from transfected arteries demonstrated maximum hGH secretion 5 days after transfection and no detectable hormone after 20 days. Despite these levels of secreted gene product documented in vivo, immunohistochemical staining of sections taken from the rabbit ear artery at necropsy disclosed only rare cells in which there was evidence of successful transfection. CONCLUSIONS: These experiments demonstrate a useful method of performing serial in vivo analyses of gene expression after vascular transfection and that anatomic analyses of transfection efficiency may underestimate the potential magnitude of expression in the case of a secreted gene product. These findings have implications for the clinical application of somatic gene therapy because low-efficiency transfection with a gene encoding for a secreted protein may achieve therapeutic effects not realized by transfection with genes encoding for proteins that remain intracellular.
The molecular mechanism underlying metastasis of chondrosarcoma (CS) remains unclarified. Here, we show that matrix metalloproteinase-26 (MMP26) level is significantly higher in the resected CS than in the adjacent healthy chondral tissue from the patients. To examine the role of MMP26 in CS invasion, we used a human CS line SW1353 and we either overexpressed or inhibited MMP26 in these cells. We found that overexpression of MMP26 in SW1353 cells increased cell invasiveness, while inhibition of MMP26 decreased cell invasiveness. To define the signal transduction cascades downstream of MMP26 activation, we applied specific inhibitors for PI3K, ERK/MAPK, JNK, and Wnt signaling, respectively, to the MMP26-overexpressing SW1353 cells. We found that only inhibition of Wnt signaling by either metformin or IWP-2 significantly decreased the effect of MMP26 on cancer cell invasion, possibly through increasing beta-catenin phosphorylation. Further, a strong correlation was detected between MMP26 levels and the ratio of phosphorylated/total beta-catenin in CS from the patients. Taken together, our study highlights MMP26-regulated Wnt signaling as a novel therapeutic target for CS.
Growth factors, potent regulators of cell differentiation, tissue morphogenesis, tissue homeostasis, and cellular response to injury, reside in the extracellular matrix. Genetic evidence in humans and mice as well as biochemical data implicate fibrillins and LTBPs in the extracellular control of TGFbeta and BMP signaling. Fibrillins and LTBPs form tissue-specific and temporally regulated microfibril networks. In the developing embryo, three fibrillins and four LTBPs contribute molecular heterogeneity to microfibril networks, and provide different templates upon which TGFbeta-related growth factors can be positioned. By accommodating this molecular heterogeneity, microfibril architecture can orchestrate a variety of different signals in very specific tissue locations. Human fibrillinopathies display a broad phenotypic spectrum from tall to short stature, from hypermobile joints to joint contractures and stiffness, and from severe to mild or no cardiovascular manifestations. A spectrum of growth factor dysregulation may be caused by differential effects of mutations in fibrillins on microfibril architecture, thus altering appropriate targeting or positioning of growth factors within microfibril networks. Growth factor dysregulation may help to explain the broad phenotypic spectrum of the fibrillinopathies.
For most organisms, chemosensation is critical for survival and is mediated by large families of chemoreceptor proteins, whose expression must be tuned appropriately to changes in the chemical environment. We asked whether expression of chemoreceptor genes that are clustered in the genome would be regulated independently; whether expression of certain chemoreceptor genes would be especially sensitive to environmental changes; whether groups of chemoreceptor genes undergo coordinated rexpression; and how plastic the expression of chemoreceptor genes is with regard to sex, development, reproductive state, and social context. To answer these questions we used Drosophila melanogaster, because its chemosensory systems are well characterized and both the genotype and environment can be controlled precisely. Using customized cDNA microarrays, we showed that chemoreceptor genes that are clustered in the genome undergo independent transcriptional regulation at different developmental stages and between sexes. Expression of distinct subgroups of chemoreceptor genes is sensitive to reproductive state and social interactions. Furthermore, exposure of flies only to odor of the opposite sex results in altered transcript abundance of chemoreceptor genes. These genes are distinct from those that show transcriptional plasticity when flies are allowed physical contact with same or opposite sex members. We analyzed covariance in transcript abundance of chemosensory genes across all environmental conditions and found that they segregated into 20 relatively small, biologically relevant modules of highly correlated transcripts. This finely pixilated modular organization of the chemosensory subgenome enables fine tuning of the expression of the chemoreceptor repertoire in response to ecologically relevant environmental and physiological conditions.
BACKGROUND: Epidemiologists and ecologists often collect data in the field and, on returning to their laboratory, enter their data into a database for further analysis. The recent introduction of mobile phones that utilise the open source Android operating system, and which include (among other features) both GPS and Google Maps, provide new opportunities for developing mobile phone applications, which in conjunction with web applications, allow two-way communication between field workers and their project databases. METHODOLOGY: Here we describe a generic framework, consisting of mobile phone software, EpiCollect, and a web application located within www.spatialepidemiology.net. Data collected by multiple field workers can be submitted by phone, together with GPS data, to a common web database and can be displayed and analysed, along with previously collected data, using Google Maps (or Google Earth). Similarly, data from the web database can be requested and displayed on the mobile phone, again using Google Maps. Data filtering options allow the display of data submitted by the individual field workers or, for example, those data within certain values of a measured variable or a time period. CONCLUSIONS: Data collection frameworks utilising mobile phones with data submission to and from central databases are widely applicable and can give a field worker similar display and analysis tools on their mobile phone that they would have if viewing the data in their laboratory via the web. We demonstrate their utility for epidemiological data collection and display, and briefly discuss their application in ecological and community data collection. Furthermore, such frameworks offer great potential for recruiting 'citizen scientists' to contribute data easily to central databases through their mobile phone.
BACKGROUND: Accountable care organizations (ACOs) have the potential to lower costs and improve quality through incentives and coordinated care. However, the design brings with it many new challenges. One such challenge is the optimal use of pharmaceuticals. Most ACOs have not yet focused on this integral facet of care, even though medications are a critical component to achieving the lower costs and improved quality that are anticipated with this new model. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether ACOs are prepared to maximize the value of medications for achieving quality benchmarks and cost offsets. METHODS: During the fall of 2012, an electronic readiness self-assessment was developed using a portion of the questions and question methodology from the National Survey of Accountable Care Organizations, along with original questions developed by the authors. The assessment was tested and subsequently revised based on feedback from pilot testing with 5 ACO representatives. The revised assessment was distributed via e-mail to a convenience sample (n=175) of ACO members of the American Medical Group Association, Brookings-Dartmouth ACO Learning Network, and Premier Healthcare Alliance. RESULTS: The self-assessment was completed by 46 ACO representatives (26% response rate). ACOs reported high readiness to manage medications in a few areas, such as transmitting prescriptions electronically (70%), being able to integrate medical and pharmacy data into a single database (54%), and having a formulary in place that encourages generic use when appropriate (50%). However, many areas have substantial room for improvement with few ACOs reporting high readiness. Some notable areas include being able to quantify the cost offsets and hence demonstrate the value of appropriate medication use (7%), notifying a physician when a prescription has been filled (9%), having protocols in place to avoid medication duplication and polypharmacy (17%), and having quality metrics in place for a broad diversity of conditions (22%). CONCLUSIONS: Developing the capabilities to support, monitor, and ensure appropriate medication use will be critical to achieve optimal patient outcomes and ACO success. The ACOs surveyed have embarked upon an important journey towards this goal, but critical gaps remain before they can become fully accountable. While many of these organizations have begun adopting health information technologies that allow them to maximize the value of medications for achieving quality outcomes and cost offsets, a significant lag was identified in their inability to use these technologies to their full capacities. In order to provide further guidance, the authors have begun documenting case studies for public release that would provide ACOs with examples of how certain medication issues have been addressed by ACOs or relevant organizations. The authors hope that these case studies will help ACOs optimize the value of pharmaceuticals and achieve the "triple aim" of improving care, health, and cost.
Phenolic content and antioxidant potential of lentil sprouts may be enhanced by treatment of seedlings in abiotic stress conditions without any negative influence on nutritional quality. The health-relevant and nutritional quality of sprouts was improved by elicitation of 2-day-old sprouts with oxidative, osmotic, ion-osmotic and temperature stresses. Among the sprouts studied, those obtained by elicitation with osmotic (600 mM mannitol) and ion-osmotic (300 mM NaCl) shocks had the highest total phenolic content levels: 6.52 and 6.56 mg/g flour, respectively. Oxidative stress significantly enhanced the levels of (+)-catechin and p-coumaric acid. A marked elevation of the chlorogenic and gallic acid contents was also determined for sprouts induced at 4 degrees C and 40 degrees C. The elevated phenolic content was translated into the antioxidant potential of sprouts, especially the ability to reduce lipid oxidation. A marked elevation of this ability was determined for seedlings treated with 20 mM, 200 mM H2O2 (oxidative stress) and 600 mM mannitol (osmotic stress); about a 12-fold, 8-fold and 9.5-fold increase in respect to control sprouts. The highest ability to quench free radicals was observed in sprouts induced by osmotic stress (IC50- 4.91 and 5.12 mg/ml for 200 mM and 600 mM mannitol, respectively). The highest total antioxidant activity indexes were determined for sprouts elicited with 20 mM H2O2 and 600 mM mannitol: 4.0 and 3.4, respectively. All studied growth conditions, except induction at 40 degrees C, caused a significant elevation of resistant starch levels which was also affected in a subsequent reduction of starch digestibility. Improvement of sprout quality by elicitation with abiotic stresses is a cheap and easy biotechnology and it seems to be an alternative to conventional techniques applied to improve the health promoting phytochemical levels and bioactivity of low-processed food.
A series of halogen-containing alkylglycerolipid analogs has been checked for their cytostatic activity both in vitro and in vivo. The compounds included alkyldeoxyhaloglycerols (I), alkyldeoxyhaloglycerophosphocholines (II), and alkyldeoxyhaloglycerophosphoric acids and alkyl esters (III). While compounds I and III were moderately active, compounds II were found to have a strong inhibitory effect on the proliferation of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells in vitro. Cell growth inhibition of 50% or more was found mainly in the late S- or G2-phase of the cell cycle as revealed by flow cytometry. Alkyl lysophospholipid analogs II and cholesterol form liposomes with high encapsulation efficiency and low permeability for entrapped substances. Compounds II were active against Lewis lung carcinoma in mice when applied in free form or as liposomes.
The antifungal activity of allicin and its synergistic effects with the antifungal agents flucytosine and amphotericin B (AmB) were investigated in Candida albicans (C. albicans). C. albicans was treated with different conditions of compounds alone and in combination (allicin, AmB, flucytosine, allicin + AmB, allicin + flucytosine, allicin + AmB + flucytosine). After a 24-hour treatment, cells were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) to measure morphological and biophysical properties associated with cell death. The clearing assay was conducted to confirm the effects of allicin. The viability of C. albicans treated by allicin alone or with one antifungal drug (AmB, flucytosine) in addition was more than 40% after a 24-hr treatment, but the viability of groups treated with combinations of more than two drugs was less than 32%. When the cells were treated with allicin alone or one type of drug, the morphology of the cells did not change noticeably, but when cells were treated with combinations of drugs, there were noticeable morphological changes. In particular, cells treated with allicin + AmB had significant membrane damage (burst or collapsed membranes). Classification of cells according to their cell death phase (CDP) allowed us to determine the relationship between cell viability and treatment conditions in detail. The adhesive force was decreased by the treatment in all groups compare to the control. Cells treated with AmB + allicin had a greater adhesive force than cells treated with AmB alone because of the secretion of molecules due to collapsed membranes. All cells treated with allicin or drugs were softer than the control cells. These results suggest that allicin can reduce MIC of AmB while keeping the same efficacy.
alpha-Cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) is an indole tetramic acid mycotoxin. Based on our identification of the polyketide synthase-nonribosomal peptide synthase (PKS-NRPS) hybrid gene cpaA involved in cyclopiazonic acid biosynthesis in Aspergillus fungi, we carried out heterologous expression of Aspergillus flavuscpaA under alpha-amylase promoter in Aspergillus oryzae and identified its sole product to be the CPA biosynthetic intermediate cyclo-acetoacetyl-l-tryptophan (cAATrp). This result rationalized that the PKS-NRPS hybrid enzyme CpaA catalyzes condensation of the diketide acetoacetyl-ACP formed by the PKS module and l-Trp activated by the NRPS module. This CpaA expression system provides us an ideal platform for PKS-NRPS functional analysis, such as adenylation domain selectivity and product releasing mechanism.
Nausea and vomiting during pregnancy is a condition with an obscure aetiology. The treatment is symptomatic but there is a lack of alternative treatments. Tactile massage is known to give relaxation and increased well-being in connection with different illnesses, but has never been studied on women with severe nausea and vomiting during pregnancy (SNVP). The aim of this study was to describe hospitalized women's experiences of SNVP and of tactile massage. A phenomenological method was used. Ten hospitalized women with SNVP were included. Each woman was given tactile massage on three separate occasions. After the final massage an open interview was used covering both the experience of severe nausea and vomiting, and of tactile massage. The findings revealed an essential meaning summarizing the experience: to obtain a relieving moment of rest and access to the whole body when nausea rules life. When nausea is experienced as controlling a woman's life, tactile massage is experienced as promoting relaxation and gives her an opportunity to regain access to her body. The findings suggest that tactile massage is a good alternative and complement to traditional treatment of SNVP.
A series of novel fluorescein monophosphates aimed as substrates for protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) were synthesized and evaluated against fluorescein diphosphate (FDP), the currently used fluorescent substrate for PTPs. In contrast to FDP, which is dephosphorylated to monophosphate and then to fluorescein in a sequential reaction, these monophosphates are dephosphorylated in a single step. This eliminates the complication in assaying PTPs due to the cleavage of the second phosphate group. The kinetic studies of these substrates with PTPs were performed and Michaelis-Menten parameters were obtained. These designed substrates have Km 0.03-0. 35 mM, kcat/Km of 3-100 mM-1 s-1 with CD45 and PTP1B. The results showed that the substrates with negative charge groups on the fluorescein have higher affinities for PTP1B, which are consistent with other observations. In this series, fluorescein monosulfate monophosphate (FMSP) was the best substrate observed. Since FMSP showed large increases in both absorption and fluorescence upon dephosphorylation by PTPs at pH>6.0, it is one of the most sensitive, stable and high affinity substrates reported for PTPs.
The transport out of the nucleus of RNAs transcribed by RNA polymerase II (U snRNAs and mRNAs) has not been extensively studied. Basic questions, such as whether export requires association of the RNA with specific proteins, are not yet definitively answered. Nevertheless, recent progress in this area has been significant. Sequence or structural features of RNAs which are either required for export or which result in nuclear retention have been defined. These are presumed to interact with components of the transport machinery or with anchoring nuclear factors respectively. The unexplained dependence of the transport of certain mRNAs on either intervening sequences or for transcription from specific promoters suggests that RNAs may have to pass through different intranuclear compartments before export. Studies of the import of RNAs from the cytoplasm has revealed that different classes of nuclear localization signals exist, and protein components of viral RNPs that appear to determine the direction in which they move through the nuclear envelope have been identified.
We have employed analytical S1 nuclease analysis to identify sites with altered DNA secondary structure in the human c-myc gene. We have mapped several sites of that kind in vitro at one-base resolution but have focused our attention on one particularly stable conformational isomer which occurs approximately 270 base pairs upstream from the preferred transcription origin. We have analyzed the kinetics of that conformational equilibrium as a function of supercoil density and enzyme concentration and find that DNA structure in this region is adequately modeled as a two-state equilibrium between an undistorted (S1 nuclease insensitive) and a distorted (S1-sensitive) state. We find that at fixed supercoil density, S1 nuclease cleavage at this DNA segment can be altered in vitro by a DNA sequence change as far away as 1500 bases. We also find that the S1 nuclease cleavage at this site can be dramatically enhanced by the binding of small RNA molecules. On the basis of an analysis of S1 cutting kinetics and an analysis of DNA sequence at the S1 cleavage site, we conclude that RNA may bind directly to DNA, thereby shifting the underlying conformational equilibrium. Together, these data suggest that as a class, short RNA molecules could serve as site-specific regulatory elements in the myc gene and elsewhere.
In order to analyze quantitative characters effectively, a gene (effective factor) model is established, which can describe the phenotypic distribution of a quantitative character in the segregating population quite well because it has not only involved the additive effect of genes, but has also considered the dominance deviation and epistatic deviation. In this paper, we also present a method to estimate the parameters of the model. Based on the results of some illustration, the proposed model is considered to be superior to Castle-Wright's formula, and it may provide more useful information to breeders.
We analyze geographic genetic variation in C. ocellatus to evaluate the influences of major climatic, paleogeographic and anthropogenic factors in its biogeographic history. Ninety four specimens from 61 populations were collected across all of its geographical range and analyzed based on partial mitochondrial sequences (cyt b, 12S, and ND1). Our results demonstrate that an ancestral form of C. ocellatus, which expanded in northwestern Africa at the end of Miocene, diverged in at least three separate evolutionary lineages approximately 4.57Ma: C. humilis spread south of the Sahara, while the other two (C. ocellatus sensu stricto) were restricted in the coastal North African region. The complicated history of the ocellated skink is a result of multiple vicariant phenomena followed by multiple active or passive dispersals. The Messinian salinity crisis and the re-flooding of the Mediterranean basin, the climatic transition from Middle to Upper Pliocene, and the hyperarid phase of the Sahara, affected the distribution and diversification of C. ocellatus, while in historical times it was introduced in the central Mediterranean islands and eastern Mediterranean region from Tunisia and Cyrenaica, respectively.
BACKGROUND: Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and severe hypoglycaemia are common acute complications of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). This study aimed to determine the incidence of, and risk factors for, these complications in Chinese patients with established T1DM. METHODS: This cross-sectional study recruited patients with established T1DM from 16 centres in Guangdong Province, China. Incidence rates were expressed as episodes/100 patient-years. Regression models identified risk factors for the occurrence and recurrence of secondary DKA and severe hypoglycaemia. RESULTS: A total of 611 patients with established T1DM (53.7% women) were recruited. The incidence of secondary DKA and severe hypoglycaemia was 26.4 (22.4, 31.0) and 68.8 (62.2, 76.0)/100 patient-years, respectively. Significant risk factors for secondary DKA were female gender [relative risk (RR) = 2.12], medical reimbursement rate <50% (RR = 1.84), uncontrolled diet (RR = 1.76), smoking (RR = 2.18) and poor glycaemic control [glycated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c)/1.0% increase; RR = 1.15]. Overweight/obesity was a protective factor (RR = 0.57). Significant risk factors for severe hypoglycaemia included male gender (RR = 1.71), medical reimbursement rate < 50% (RR = 1.36), longer duration of T1DM (per 5-year increase, RR = 1.22), underweight (RR = 1.44), uncontrolled diet ('never controlled' or 'sometimes controlled' vs. 'usually controlled', RR = 2.09 or 2.02, respectively), exercise <150 min/week (RR = 1.66), presence of neuropathy (RR = 1.89), smoking (RR = 1.48) and lower HbA1c values (per 1.0% decrease, RR = 1.46). Overweight/obesity was a protective factor (RR = 0.62). Additionally, 34.4% of secondary DKA and 81.1% of severe hypoglycaemia episodes occurred in 3.8% and 16.2% patients with recurrent events (>/=two episodes), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that secondary DKA and severe hypoglycaemia occur at high rates in Chinese patients with established T1DM and that recurrence is likely to occur in high-risk patients. Comprehensive management of T1DM should include recommendations to control modifiable risk factors.
HIV-1 protease has a broad and complex substrate specificity, which hitherto has escaped a simple comprehensive definition. This, and the relatively high mutation rate of the retroviral protease, makes it challenging to design effective protease inhibitors. Several attempts have been made during the last two decades to elucidate the enigmatic cleavage specificity of HIV-1 protease and to predict cleavage of novel substrates using bioinformatic analysis methods. This review describes the methods that have been utilized to date to address this important problem and the results achieved. The data sets used are also reviewed and important aspects of these are highlighted.
Fibrinolytic therapy is the most common reperfusion strategy for patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), particularly in smaller centers. Previous studies evaluated the relation between time to treatment and outcomes when few patients were treated within 30 minutes of hospital arrival and many did not receive modern adjunctive medications. To quantify the impact of a delay in door-to-needle time on mortality in a recent and representative cohort of patients with STEMI, a cohort of 62,470 patients with STEMI treated using fibrinolytic therapy at 973 hospitals that participated in the National Registry of Myocardial Infarction from 1999 to 2002 was analyzed. Hierarchical models were used to evaluate the independent effect of door-to-needle time on in-hospital mortality. In-hospital mortality was lower with shorter door-to-needle times (2.9% for < or =30 minutes, 4.1% for 31 to 45 minutes, and 6.2% for >45 minutes; p <0.001 for trend). Compared with those experiencing door-to-needle times < or =30 minutes, adjusted odd ratios (ORs) of dying were 1.17 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04 to 1.31) and 1.37 (95% CI 1.23 to 1.52; p for trend <0.001) for patients with door-to-needle times of 31 to 45 and >45 minutes, respectively. This relation was particularly pronounced in those presenting within 1 hour of symptom onset to presentation time (OR 1.25, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.54; OR 1.54, 95% CI 1.27 to 1.87, respectively; p for trend <0.001). In conclusion, timely administration of fibrinolytic therapy continues to significantly impact on mortality in the modern era, particularly in patients presenting early after symptom onset.
Many DNA tumor viruses express a protein that inhibits transcriptional activation by the tumor-suppressing transcription factor p53. We report that adenovirus E1B 55K represses p53-mediated activation by a mechanism not described previously. E1B 55K binds p53 without displacing it from its DNA-binding site. A fusion of E1B 55K to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain represses transcription from a variety of promoters with engineered upstream GAL4-binding sites. Mutations within E1B 55K that interfere with its transforming activity and its ability to inhibit p53-mediated trans-activation also interfere with transcriptional repression by the GAL4-55K fusion. These results demonstrate that E1B 55K functions as a direct transcriptional repressor that is targeted to p53-responsive genes by binding to p53.
A new class of N-(1-thia-4-azaspiro[4.5]decan-4-yl)carboxamide inhibitors of influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA)-mediated membrane fusion that has a narrow and defined structure-activity relationship was identified. In Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells infected with different strains of human influenza virus A/H3N2, the lead compound, 4c, displayed a 50% effective concentration of 3 to 23 muM and an antiviral selectivity index of 10. No activity was observed for A/H1N1, A/H5N1, A/H7N2, and B viruses. The activity of 4c was reduced considerably when added 30 min or later postinfection, indicating that 4c inhibits an early step in virus replication. 4c and its congeners inhibited influenza A/H3N2 virus-induced erythrocyte hemolysis at low pH. 4c-resistant virus mutants, selected in MDCK cells, contained either a single D112N change in the HA2 subunit of the viral HA or a combination of three substitutions, i.e., R220S (in HA1) and E57K (in HA2) and an A-T substitution at position 43 or 96 of HA2. The mutants showed efficiency for receptor binding and replication similar to that of wild-type virus yet displayed an increased pH of erythrocyte hemolysis. In polykaryon assays with cells expressing single-mutant HA proteins, the E57K, A96T, and D112N mutations resulted in 4c resistance, and the HA proteins containing R220S, A96T, and D112N mutations displayed an increased fusion pH. Molecular modeling identified a binding cavity for 4c involving arginine-54 and glutamic acid-57 in the HA2 subunit. Our studies with the new fusion inhibitor 4c confirm the importance of this HA region in the development of influenza virus fusion inhibitors.
Mutation studies were performed on active-site residues of vanadium chloroperoxidase from the fungus Curvularia inaequalis, an enzyme which exhibits both haloperoxidase and phosphatase activity and is related to glucose-6-phosphatase. The effects of mutation to alanine on haloperoxidase activity were studied for the proposed catalytic residue His-404 and for residue Asp-292, which is located close to the vanadate cofactor. The mutants were strongly impaired in their ability to oxidize chloride but still oxidized bromide, although they inactivate during turnover. The effects on the optical absorption spectrum of vanadium chloroperoxidase indicate that mutant H404A has a reduced affinity for the cofactor, whereas this affinity is unchanged in mutant D292A. The effect on the phosphatase activity of the apoenzyme was investigated for six mutants of putative catalytic residues. Effects of mutation of His-496, Arg-490, Arg-360, Lys-353, and His-404 to alanine are in line with their proposed roles in nucleophilic attack, transition-state stabilization, and leaving-group protonation. Asp-292 is excluded as the group that protonates the leaving group. A model based on the mutagenesis studies is presented and may serve as a template for glucose-6-phosphatase and other related phosphatases. Hydrolysis of a phospho-histidine intermediate is the rate-determining step in the phosphatase activity of apochloroperoxidase, as shown by burst kinetics.
A model concept for prediction of sulfide buildup in sewer networks is presented. The model concept is an extension to--and a further development of--the WATS model (Wastewater Aerobic-anaerobic Transformations in Sewers), which has been developed by Hvitved-Jacobsen and co-workers at Aalborg University. In addition to the sulfur cycle, the WATS model simulates changes in dissolved oxygen and carbon fractions of different biodegradability. The sulfur cycle was introduced via six processes: 1. sulfide production taking place in the biofilm covering the permanently wetted sewer walls; 2. biological sulfide oxidation in the permanently wetted biofilm; 3. chemical and biological sulfide oxidation in the water phase; 4. sulfide precipitation with metals present in the wastewater; 5. emission of hydrogen sulfide to the sewer atmosphere and 6. adsorption and oxidation of hydrogen sulfide on the moist sewer walls where concrete corrosion may take place.
It is well known that ascorbic acid (Asc) is highly concentrated in the adrenal gland, but its function in the gland is not thoroughly elucidated. We therefore examined the possibility that Asc participates in steroidogenic monooxygenase systems of the adrenal cortex with the aid of the regenerating system including outer mitochondrial membrane cytochrome b (OMb). When Asc availability was limited in rat mutants unable to synthesize Asc, the increase in plasma aldosterone concentration under Na-deficiency was suppressed without effect on plasma corticosterone concentration. Aldosterone formation in the isolated mitochondrial fraction of the zona glomerulosa (zG) of the adrenal cortex was stimulated by the addition of Asc and NADH, while corticosterone formation was not. Consistently zG showed a high level of Asc regeneration activity and was rich in OMb among adrenocortical zones. Taken together, the enhanced aldosterone formation that is catalyzed by one of the steroidogenic monooxygenases, P450aldo, may be supported by Asc with its regenerating system.
RNA interference (RNAi) is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that results in specific gene inhibition at the mRNA level. The discovery that short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are selective, potent, and can largely avoid immune surveillance has resulted in keen interest to develop these inhibitors as therapeutics. A single nucleotide-specific siRNA (K6a_513a.12, also known as TD101) was recently evaluated in a phase 1b clinical trial for the rare skin disorder, pachyonychia congenita (PC). To develop a clinical trial molecular end point for this type of trial, methods were developed to: (1) isolate total RNA containing amplifiable mRNA from human skin and callus material; (2) quantitatively distinguish the single-nucleotide mutant mRNA from wild-type K6a mRNA in both patient-derived keratinocytes and patient callus; and (3) demonstrate that repeated siRNA treatment results in sustained inhibition of mutant K6a mRNA in patient-derived keratinocyte cultures. These methods allow noninvasive sampling and monitoring of gene expression from patient-collected shavings and may be useful in evaluating the effectiveness of RNAi-based therapeutics, including inhibitors that specifically target single-nucleotide mutations.
BACKGROUND: Non-tuberculous mycobacteria responsible for piscine mycobacteriosis usually produce visceral granulomas in both freshwater and marine species. In this study, the first occurrence of Mycobacterium chelonae associated with tumor-like lesions in the Russian sturgeon (Acipenser gueldenstaedtii) is reported. Fifteen sturgeons from an Italian fish farm showing skin and oral cauliflower-like masses were investigated by histopathology, bacterial culture and molecular analyses. RESULTS: A total of 20 masses different in size located in the mouth and in pectoral and caudal fins (characterized by abundant calcium deposits and by mild to moderate granulomatous inflammation) were observed with a significant different degree of histological severity. All internal organs of the fish were negative for mycobacteria, Ziehl-Neelsen was positive in only one of the oral masses, whereas bacterial and PCR analyses detected the presence of M. chelonae for almost all the skin and oral masses. Based on these results, a calcinosis of dystrophic origin associated with a chronic granulomatous inflammation was considered as a primary diagnosis consequent to tissue injury in areas susceptible to trauma. CONCLUSIONS: We hypothesized that the occurrence of M. chelonae in farmed sturgeons was only a secondary event related to its presence in a stressful rearing environment and subsequent to a dystrophic calcinosis occurred in previously damaged tissues.
Neural and endocrine factors (i.e., Ach and GLP-1) restore defective glucose-stimulated insulin release in pancreatic islets lacking sulfonylurea type 1 receptors (SUR1(-/-)) (Doliba NM, Qin W, Vatamaniuk MZ, Li C, Zelent D, Najafi H, Buettger CW, Collins HW, Carr RD, Magnuson MA, and Matschinsky FM. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 286: E834-E843, 2004). The goal of the present study was to assess fuel-induced respiration in SUR1(-/-) islets and to correlate it with changes in intracellular Ca(2+), insulin, and glucagon secretion. By use of a method based on O(2) quenching of phosphorescence, the O(2) consumption rate (OCR) of isolated islets was measured online in a perifusion system. Basal insulin release (IR) was 7-10 times higher in SUR1(-/-) compared with control (CON) islets, but the OCR was comparable. The effect of high glucose (16.7 mM) on IR and OCR was markedly reduced in SUR1(-/-) islets compared with CON. Ach (0.5 microM) in the presence of 16.7 mM glucose caused a large burst of IR in CON and SUR1(-/-) islets with minor changes in OCR in both groups of islets. In SUR1(-/-) islets, high glucose failed to inhibit glucagon secretion during stimulation with amino acids or Ach. We conclude that 1) reduced glucose responsiveness of SUR1(-/-) islets may be in part due to impaired energetics, as evidenced by significant decrease in glucose-stimulated OCR; 2) elevated intracellular Ca(2+) levels may contribute to altered insulin and glucagon secretion in SUR1(-/-) islets; and 3) The amplitudes of the changes in OCR during glucose and Ach stimulation do not correlate with IR in normal and SUR1(-/-) islets suggesting that the energy requirements for exocytosis are minor compared with other ATP-consuming reactions.
Hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are genetically and clinically heterogeneous axonopathies primarily affecting upper motor neurons and, in complex forms, additional neurons. Here, we report two families with distinct recessive mutations in TFG, previously suggested to cause HSP based on findings in a single small family with complex HSP. The first carried a homozygous c.317G>A (p.R106H) variant and presented with pure HSP. The second carried the same homozygous c.316C>T (p.R106C) variant previously reported and displayed a similarly complex phenotype including optic atrophy. Haplotyping and bisulfate sequencing revealed evidence for a c.316C>T founder allele, as well as for a c.316_317 mutation hotspot. Expression of mutant TFG proteins in cultured neurons revealed mitochondrial fragmentation, the extent of which correlated with clinical severity. Our findings confirm the causal nature of bi-allelic TFG mutations for HSP, broaden the clinical and mutational spectra, and suggest mitochondrial impairment to represent a pathomechanistic link to other neurodegenerative conditions.
BACKGROUND: Sarcopenia, the age-related loss of muscle mass [defined as appendicular LBM/Height2 (aLBM/ht2) below peak value by>1SD], strength and function, is a major contributing factor to frailty in the elderly. MK-0773 is a selective androgen receptor modulator designed to improve muscle function while minimizing effects on other tissues. OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate an improvement in muscle strength and lean body mass (LBM) in sarcopenic frail elderly women treated with MK-0773 relative to placebo. DESIGN: This was a randomized, double-blind, parallel-arm, placebo-controlled, multicenter, 6-month study. Participants were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either MK-0773 50mg b.i.d. or placebo; all participants received Vitamin D and protein supplementation. SETTING: General community. PARTICIPANTS: 170 Women aged >/=65 with sarcopenia and moderate physical dysfunction. MEASUREMENTS: Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry, muscle strength and power, physical performance measures. RESULTS: Participants receiving MK-0773 showed a statistically significant increase in LBM from baseline at Month 6 vs. placebo (p<0.001). Participants receiving both MK-0773 and placebo showed a statistically significant increase in strength from baseline to Month 6, but the mean difference between the two groups was not significant (p=0.269). Both groups showed significant improvement from baseline at Month 6 in physical performance measures, but there were no statistically significant differences between participants receiving MK-0773 and placebo. A greater number of participants experienced elevated transaminases in the MK-0773 group vs. placebo, which resolved after discontinuation of study therapy. MK-0773 was generally well-tolerated with no evidence of androgenization. CONCLUSIONS: The MK-0773-induced increase in LBM did not translate to improvement in strength or function vs. placebo. The improvement of strength and physical function in the placebo group could be at least partly attributed to protein and vitamin D supplementation.
Sorbitol metabolism of the endothelial cells of the aorta has been studied in normal and alloxan diabetic rats by the aid of a new time- and gradient governed elution method. In the normal rats the amount of sorbitol was small whereas in the diabetic animals the content was significantly increased (p less than 0.001). The activity of sorbitol-dehydrogenase was not changed. It is possible that a metabolic injury of endothelial cells induced by a glucose overload may be mediated by formation of sorbitol.
Cell surface glycosylation is an important element in defining the life of pathogenic bacteria. Tannerella forsythia is a Gram-negative, anaerobic periodontal pathogen inhabiting the subgingival plaque biofilms. It is completely covered by a two-dimensional crystalline surface layer (S-layer) composed of two glycoproteins. Although the S-layer has previously been shown to delay the bacterium's recognition by the innate immune system, we characterize here the S-layer protein O-glycosylation as a potential virulence factor. The T. forsythia S-layer glycan was elucidated by a combination of electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy as an oligosaccharide with the structure 4-Me-beta-ManpNAcCONH(2)-(1-->3)-[Pse5Am7Gc-(2-->4)-]-beta-ManpNAcA-(1-->4)-[4-Me -alpha-Galp-(1-->2)-]-alpha-Fucp-(1-->4)-[-alpha-Xylp-(1-->3)-]-beta-GlcpA-(1-->3 )-[-beta-Digp-(1-->2)-]-alpha-Galp, which is O-glycosidically linked to distinct serine and threonine residues within the three-amino acid motif (D)(S/T)(A/I/L/M/T/V) on either S-layer protein. This S-layer glycan obviously impacts the life style of T. forsythia because increased biofilm formation of an UDP-N-acetylmannosaminuronic acid dehydrogenase mutant can be correlated with the presence of truncated S-layer glycans. We found that several other proteins of T. forsythia are modified with that specific oligosaccharide. Proteomics identified two of them as being among previously classified antigenic outer membrane proteins that are up-regulated under biofilm conditions, in addition to two predicted antigenic lipoproteins. Theoretical analysis of the S-layer O-glycosylation of T. forsythia indicates the involvement of a 6.8-kb gene locus that is conserved among different bacteria from the Bacteroidetes phylum. Together, these findings reveal the presence of a protein O-glycosylation system in T. forsythia that is essential for creating a rich glycoproteome pinpointing a possible relevance for the virulence of this bacterium.
The aim of the study was to estimate the significance of oxidative/nitrosative damage and expression of antioxidant enzymes in renal cell carcinomas (RCC). For this we investigated immunohistochemically six antioxidant enzymes (AOEs) including MnSOD, ECSOD, thioredoxin, thioredoxin reductase, and gammaglutamyl cysteine synthetase heavy and light chain in 138 RCCs. As an indicator of oxidative/nitrosative damage, sections were stained with an antibody to nitrotyrosine. The extent of apoptosis was evaluated by TUNEL method and proliferation by immunohistochemistry to Ki67. Variable expression of all AOEs could be seen in RCC with expression of MnSOD being strongest. Nitrotyrosine was significantly associated with high grade tumors. MnSOD was associated with tumors of a lower stage. Cases showing ECSOD reactivity had higher and cases expressing thioredoxin lower apoptotic index than other tumors. No association with patient prognosis was observed. According to the results renal cell carcinomas show oxidative/nitrosative damage which, according to nitrotyrosine staining, was higher in high grade tumors. Of AOEs, MnSOD was more abundantly expressed in low stage tumors suggesting that its antioxidant function could play a main role to prevent development of oxidative damage leading to more aggressive tumors.
IMPORTANCE: To date, no consistency exists across studies that have evaluated the relationship between hepatic lipase gene (LIPC) rs10468017 variant and advanced age-related macular degeneration (AMD). OBJECTIVE: To summarize all relevant evidence for a relationship between LIPC variant and advanced AMD. DATA SOURCES: The PubMed and Embase databases were searched for studies potentially eligible in any language published up to September 15, 2013. STUDY SELECTION: Case-control studies of 2 or more comparison groups that included patients with advanced AMD (choroidal neovascularization or geographic atrophy). DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Allele frequencies and genotype distributions of rs10468017 variant. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Summary odds ratios (ORs) and 95% CIs were estimated under different genetic models using meta-analytic methods. A stratified analysis by advanced AMD subtypes and race/ethnicity was performed, as well as a sensitivity analysis. RESULTS: Data from 10 case-control studies were included in the meta-analysis. The rs10468017 variant (C-->T) showed significant summary ORs of 0.81 (95% CI, 0.75-0.88), 0.83 (95% CI, 0.70-0.98), and 0.60 (95% CI, 0.44-0.81) under the allelic (T vs C), heterozygous (TC vs CC), and homozygous (TT vs CC) models, respectively. Carrying at least 1 copy of the T allele decreased the risk of choroidal neovascularization and geographic atrophy by 20% (OR, 0.80; 95% CI, 0.74-0.87) and 29% (OR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.59-0.86), respectively. The pooled OR for white race/ethnicity under an allelic model was 0.80 (95% CI, 0.74-0.87). The sensitivity analysis indicated the robustness of our findings, and no evidence of publication bias was observed in our meta-analysis. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Our meta-analysis indicates that LIPC rs10468017 variant is associated with a reduced risk of advanced AMD. This finding may lead to insights regarding the pathogenesis, prevention, and treatment of AMD.
The morphological involution and histochemical changes of the Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) epididymis induced by a short light period were investigated. Under short-day conditions, the epididymis showed marked morphological changes including a decrease in luminal diameter, disappearance of spermatozoa, increase of interductal tissue, increase of intraepithelial lipofuscin deposits, the presence of phagolysosomes in the principal cells and macrophage-like cells, and a considerable modification of most clear cells. With lectin histochemistry changes were found in the glycoconjugates of principal cells of the regressed epididymis, either a decrease (PNA, WGA, HPA and DBA) or an increase (MAA) in the affinity of lectins to the Golgi area, or a decrease (HPA) or an increase (PNA) in lectin binding to stereocilia. Both morphological and histochemical results showed that, under this light condition, the cauda epididymidis presented the most prominent alterations, and that the epididymis showed increased absorptive activity and a decreased synthesis of glycoproteins. All these changes are probably due to the decrease in testosterone levels.
The role of yeasts in food and beverage production extends beyond the well-known bread, beer and wine fermentations. Molecular analytical technologies have led to a major revision of yeast taxonomy, and have facilitated the ecological study of yeasts in many other products. The mechanisms by which yeasts grow in these ecosystems and impact on product quality can now be studied at the level of gene expression. Their growth and metabolic activities are moderated by a network of strain and species interactions, including interactions with bacteria and other fungi. Some yeasts have been developed as agents for the biocontrol of food spoilage fungi, and others are being considered as novel probiotic organisms. The association of yeasts with opportunistic infections and other adverse responses in humans raises new issues in the field of food safety.
Advances in microscopy and fluorescent probes provide new insight into the nanometer-scale biochemistry governing the interactions between eukaryotic cells and pathogens. When combined with mathematical modelling, these new technologies hold the promise of qualitative, quantitative and predictive descriptions of these pathways. Using the light microscope to study the spatial and temporal relationships between pathogens, host cells and their respective biochemical machinery requires an appreciation for how fluorescent probes and imaging devices function. This review summarizes how live cell fluorescence microscopy with common instruments can provide quantitative insight into the cellular and molecular functions of hosts and pathogens.
OBJECTIVE: Corpus-dominant gastritis, gastric mucosal atrophy and intestinal metaplasia (IM) associated with Helicobacter pylori infection are all known potential risk markers for the development of gastric cancer. As the accuracy for finding cases at risk in the general population is unknown, we aimed to determine the prevalence of current and/or past H. pylori infection and associated gastric mucosal findings by means of histological survey of a random adult population. MATERIAL AND METHODS: A random Swedish sample (n = 3000, age 20-81 years) was surveyed using a validated gastrointestinal symptom questionnaire with 74% response rate. One-third of the responders were selected at random for esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy with biopsies and H. pylori serology. RESULTS: Of those endoscoped (n = 1000, mean age 53.5, 51% women), 43.0% were H. pylori+ by serology (seropositive), 33.9% had signs of current infection on either histology or culture (gold standard+), and 9.3% were seropositive, but gold standard negative. Corpus atrophy was found in 10% and IM in 13% when gold standard positive, and in a significantly higher number (17% and 21%, respectively) of those with only a serological sign of past infection. Among those who were seronegative, values were 1% and 2%, respectively. Corpus-dominant gastritis was found in 4.1%, all seropositive. CONCLUSION: One-third had an ongoing H. pylori infection, and a further 10% had signs of past infection. Corpus-dominant gastritis was found mostly among the former, while detection of those with corpus atrophy and IM also required a test for past infection. Seronegativity almost excludes precancerous conditions in a screening situation.
Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, with a poor response to current chemotherapy. Danusertib is a pan-inhibitor of the Aurora kinases and a third-generation Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor with potent anticancer effects, but its antitumor effect and underlying mechanisms in the treatment of human gastric cancer are unknown. This study aimed to investigate the effects of danusertib on cell growth, apoptosis, autophagy, and epithelial to mesenchymal transition and the molecular mechanisms involved in human gastric cancer AGS and NCI-N78 cells. The results showed that danusertib had potent growth-inhibitory, apoptosis-inducing, and autophagy-inducing effects on AGS and NCI-N78 cells. Danusertib arrested AGS and NCI-N78 cells in G2/M phase, with downregulation of expression of cyclin B1 and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 and upregulation of expression of p21 Waf1/Cip1, p27 Kip1, and p53. Danusertib induced mitochondria-mediated apoptosis, with an increase in expression of proapoptotic protein and a decrease in antiapoptotic proteins in both cell lines. Danusertib induced release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytosol and triggered activation of caspase 9 and caspase 3 in AGS and NCI-N78 cells. Further, danusertib induced autophagy, with an increase in expression of beclin 1 and conversion of microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B-light chain 3 (LC3-I) to LC3-II in both cell lines. Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways as well as activation of 5' AMP-activated protein kinase contributed to the proautophagic effect of danusertib in AGS and NCI-N78 cells. SB202191 and wortmannin enhanced the autophagy-inducing effect of danusertib in AGS and NCI-N78 cells. In addition, danusertib inhibited epithelial to mesenchymal transition with an increase in expression of E-cadherin and a decrease in expression of N-cadherin in both cell lines. Taken together, danusertib has potent inducing effects on cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, and autophagy, but has an inhibitory effect on epithelial to mesenchymal transition, with involvement of signaling pathways mediated by PI3K/Akt/mTOR, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and 5' AMP-activated protein kinase in AGS and NCI-N78 cells.
Epizootics of nucleopolyhedrovirus characterize declines of cyclic populations of western tent caterpillars, Malacosoma pluviale californicum. In field populations, infection can be apparently lacking in one generation and high in the next. This may suggest an increase in the susceptibility to infection of larvae at peak density or the triggering of a vertically transmitted virus. Here, we test the hypothesis that reduced food availability, as may occur during population outbreaks of tent caterpillars, influences the immunocompetence of larvae and increases their susceptibility to viral infection. We compared immunity factors, hemolymph phenoloxidase and hemocyte numbers, and the susceptibility to nucleopolyhedroviral infection of fifth instar larvae that were fully or partially fed as fourth instars. To determine if maternal or transgenerational influences occurred, we also determined the susceptibility of the offspring of the treated parents to viral infection. Food limitation significantly reduced larval survival, development rate, larval and pupal mass, moth fecundity and levels of hemolymph phenoloxidase, but not the numbers of hemocytes. Neither the food-reduced larvae nor their offspring were more susceptible to viral infection and were possibly even less susceptible at intermediate viral doses. Food reduction did not activate latent or covert viral infection of larvae as might be expected as a response to stress. We conclude that reducing the food intake of fourth instar larvae to an extent that had measurable and realistic impacts on their life history characteristics was not translated into increased susceptibility to viral infection.
The impact of chronic moderate protein deficiency on resistance to pulmonary tuberculosis was studied in a guinea pig model. Inbred and outbred guinea pigs were maintained on isocaloric diets containing 30% or 10% ovalbumin, vaccinated with Mycobacterium bovis BCG vaccine and infected by the respiratory route with virulent Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Protein deficiency was associated with significant loss of dermal tuberculin hypersensitivity, reduced purified protein derivative (PPD)-driven lymphoproliferation in vitro and diminished interleukin-2 production. The proportion of E rosette receptor (CD2) positive lymphocytes was significantly lower in the blood and thymus of low-protein guinea pigs. Increased levels of circulating anti-PPD antibodies were associated with loss of delayed hypersensitivity in protein-deprived animals. Immune complexes containing these antibodies may act on T cells bearing Fc receptors for immunoglobulin G (T gamma cells), which appear to exert a suppressive effect on antigen-induced lymphoproliferation of Tnon-gamma cells in vitro. These results imply an important immunoregulatory role for T gamma cells in tuberculosis and suggest one mechanism whereby resistance to tuberculosis is altered in protein malnutrition.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of illness and death among the elderly. The recent emergence of drug-resistant strains has complicated selection of antimicrobial therapy for suspected pneumococcal infections. In some areas of North America, nearly 40% of pneumococcal isolates from the blood or cerebrospinal fluid of persons > or = 65 years old had reduced susceptibility to penicillin. Of all penicillin-resistant infections, >30% occur in persons > or = 65 years old. The increasing prevalence of drug-resistant pneumococci and recent outbreaks of pneumococcal disease in chronic-care facilities emphasize the importance of efforts to prevent these infections in the elderly. Limiting selection for drug-resistant strains through judicious use of antimicrobial drugs and preventing invasive pneumococcal infections through increased use of pneumococcal vaccine form the foundation of these efforts.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the relationship between bore diameter of porous hydroxyapatite (HA) scaffolds and the adhesion, proliferation and metabolism of osteoblasts by 3D cultivation. METHODS: MC3T3-E1 cell suspension was separately dropped axially through different bore diameter scaffolds (Group A:150 microm, Group B:300 microm) to confirm initial seeding. Then scaffolds were transferred into a perfusion bioreactor of 5% CO2 at 37 degrees C for 5 days with an average flow of 3.4 ml/min. After perfusion cultivation, cell proliferation between different groups of scaffolds was determined by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assay and cell metabolic activities were determined by glucose consumption. Lastly cell adhesion and proliferation were observed directly by scanning electronic microscope (SEM). RESULTS: The results of MTT assay showed that the optical density/mass ratios were 1.31 +/- 0.26 in group A and 1.51 +/- 0.43 in group B. There was no significant difference (t test, P = 0.36). Glucose consumption in group A was significantly lower than that in group B [(162.38 +/- 33.09) vs (217.97 +/- 27.91) micromol/L, P = 0.01]. The adhesion, proliferation, pseudopodia and extracellular matrix of osteoblasts in internal part of scaffolds after perfusion cultivation were observed by SEM. CONCLUSION: With excellent biocompatibility, porous HA scaffolds are available for fabricating tissue engineering bones. There is no effect of bore diameter on the proliferation of osteoblasts. But it affects the metabolic activity of osteoblasts. So bore diameter may be increased within a feasible range on the premise of mechanical properties.
X-ray luminescent nanoparticles (NPs), including lanthanide fluorides, have been evaluated for application to deep tissue in vivo molecular imaging using optical tomography. A combination of high material density, higher atomic number and efficient NIR luminescence from compatible lanthanide dopant ions indicates that particles that consist of ALnF4 (A = alkaline, Ln = lanthanide element) may offer a very attractive class of materials for high resolution, deep tissue imaging with X-ray excitation. NaGdF4:Eu3+ NPs produced an X-ray excited luminescence that was among the most efficient of nanomaterials that have been studied thus far. We have systematically studied factors such as (a) the crystal structure that changes the lattice environment of the doped Eu3+ ions within the unit cell; and extrinsic factors such as (b) a gold coating (with attendant biocompatibility) that couples to a plasmonic excitation, and (c) changes in the NPs surface properties via changes in the pH of the suspending medium-all with a significant impact on the X-ray excited luminescence of NaGdF4:Eu3+NPs. The luminescence from an optimally doped hexagonal phase NaGdF4:Eu3+ nanoparticle was 25% more intense compared to that of a cubic structure. We observed evidence of plasmonic reabsorption of midwavelength emission by a gold coating on hexagonal NaGdF4:Eu3+ NPs; fortunately, the NaGdF4:Eu3+ @Au core-shell NPs retained the efficient 5D0-->7F4 NIR (692 nm) luminescence. The NaGdF4:Eu3+ NPs exhibited sensitivity to the ambient pH when excited by X-rays, an effect not seen with UV excitation. The sensitivity to the local environment can be understood in terms of the sensitivity of the excitons that are generated by the high energy X-rays (and not by UV photons) to crystal structure and to the surface state of the particles.
Voltage-gated potassium (K V) channels regulate cerebral artery tone and have been implicated in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH)-induced pathologies. Here, we examined whether matrix metalloprotease (MMP) activation contributes to SAH-induced K V current suppression and cerebral artery constriction via activation of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs). Using patch clamp electrophysiology, we observed that K V currents were selectively decreased in cerebral artery myocytes isolated from SAH model rabbits. Consistent with involvement of enhanced MMP and EGFR activity in SAH-induced K V current suppression, we found that: (1) oxyhemoglobin (OxyHb) and/or the exogenous EGFR ligand, heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HB-EGF), failed to induce further K V current suppression after SAH and (2) gelatin zymography detected significantly higher MMP-2 activity after SAH. The removal of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by combined treatment with superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase partially inhibited OxyHb-induced K V current suppression. However, these agents had little effect on OxyHb-induced MMP-2 activation. Interestingly, in the presence of a broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor (GM6001), OxyHb failed to cause K V current suppression. These data suggest that OxyHb suppresses K V currents through both ROS-dependent and ROS-independent pathways involving MMP activation. The ROS-independent pathway involves activation of MMP-2, whereas the ROS-dependent pathway involves activation of a second unidentified MMP or ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain).
New synthetic compounds based on tetrahydroindenoquinoline structure were evaluated for their in vitro antileishmanial activities. The seven compounds assayed have antiproliferative activities against promastigotes of Leishmania mexicana. Compound 1 and 3 were the most active (IC50 1.0 mug/ml) and showed high selectivity towards the parasite. These compounds were selected to evaluate their effect on promastigote morphology and mitochondrial transmembrane potential as well as on the amastigote capability to survive into macrophages J774 cell line. Whereas compound 1 affected the promastigote cell cycle, compound 3 induced morphological changes and the total collapse of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential, a hallmark of apoptosis. Both compounds also affected the amastigote form of the parasite, decreasing their survival rate in J774 macrophages. Due to the greatest selectivity index, the apparent effect as apoptotic inducer and its sustained inhibition on intracellular amastigote replication, compound 3 is the best candidate to be tested in vivo. This compound is worth considering for the development of new antileishmanial drugs.
We describe an algorithm for designing the sequence of one or more interacting nucleic acid strands intended to adopt a target secondary structure at equilibrium. Sequence design is formulated as an optimization problem with the goal of reducing the ensemble defect below a user-specified stop condition. For a candidate sequence and a given target secondary structure, the ensemble defect is the average number of incorrectly paired nucleotides at equilibrium evaluated over the ensemble of unpseudoknotted secondary structures. To reduce the computational cost of accepting or rejecting mutations to a random initial sequence, candidate mutations are evaluated on the leaf nodes of a tree-decomposition of the target structure. During leaf optimization, defect-weighted mutation sampling is used to select each candidate mutation position with probability proportional to its contribution to the ensemble defect of the leaf. As subsequences are merged moving up the tree, emergent structural defects resulting from crosstalk between sibling sequences are eliminated via reoptimization within the defective subtree starting from new random subsequences. Using a Theta(N(3) ) dynamic program to evaluate the ensemble defect of a target structure with N nucleotides, this hierarchical approach implies an asymptotic optimality bound on design time: for sufficiently large N, the cost of sequence design is bounded below by 4/3 the cost of a single evaluation of the ensemble defect for the full sequence. Hence, the design algorithm has time complexity Omega(N(3) ). For target structures containing N in{100,200,400,800,1600,3200} nucleotides and duplex stems ranging from 1 to 30 base pairs, RNA sequence designs at 37 degrees C typically succeed in satisfying a stop condition with ensemble defect less than N/100. Empirically, the sequence design algorithm exhibits asymptotic optimality and the exponent in the time complexity bound is sharp.
The development of the efficient screening system of detecting compounds that promote myogenesis and prevent muscle atrophy is important. Mouse C2C12 cells are widely used to evaluate myogenesis but the procedures of the assay are not simple and the quantification is not easy. We established C2C12 cells expressing the N-terminal green fluorescence protein (GFP) and the C-terminal GFP (GFP1-10 and GFP11 cells). GFP1-10 and GFP11 cells do not exhibit GFP signals until they are fused. The signal intensity correlates with the expression of myogenic markers and myofusion. Myogenesis-promoting reagents, such as insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1) and beta-guanidinopropionic acid (GPA), enhance the signals, whereas the poly-caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-FMK, suppresses it. GFP signals are observed when myotubes formed by GFP1-10 cells are fused with single nuclear GFP11 cells, and enhanced by IGF1, GPA, and IBS008738, a recently-reported myogenesis-promoting reagent. Fusion between myotubes formed by GFP1-10 and GFP11 cells is associated with the appearance of GFP signals. IGF1 and GPA augment these signals, whereas NSC23766, Rac inhibitor, decreases them. The conditioned medium of cancer cells suppresses GFP signals during myogenesis and reduces the width of GFP-positive myotubes after differentiation. Thus the novel split GFP-based assay will provide the useful method for the study of myogenesis, myofusion, and atrophy.
Cryptococcus neoformans is a human-pathogenic fungus that has evolved into three distinct varieties that infect most prominently the central nervous system. A sexual cycle involving haploid cells of a and alpha mating types has been reported for two varieties (C. neoformans var. neoformans, serotype D, and C. neoformans var. gattii, serotypes B and C), yet the vast majority of infections involve a distinct variety (C. neoformans var. grubii, serotype A) that has been thought to be clonal and restricted to the alpha mating type. We recently identified the first serotype A isolate of the a mating type which had been thought to be extinct (strain 125.91). Here we report that this unusual strain can mate with a subset of pathogenic serotype A strains to produce a filamentous dikaryon with fused clamp connections, basidia, and viable recombinant basidiospores. One meiotic segregant mated poorly with the serotype A reference strain H99 but robustly with a crg1 mutant that lacks a regulator of G protein signaling and is hyperresponsive to mating pheromone. This meiotic segregant was used to create congenic a and alpha mating type serotype A strains. Virulence tests with rabbit and murine models of cryptococcal meningitis showed that the serotype A congenic a and alpha mating type strains had equivalent virulence in animal models, in contrast to previous studies linking the alpha mating type to increased virulence in congenic serotype D strains. Our studies highlight a role for sexual recombination in the evolution of a human fungal pathogen and provide a robust genetic platform to establish the molecular determinants of virulence.
Incident ultraviolet radiation from sunlight varies in intensity and spectrum with season and latitude and has both deleterious and beneficial effects on health in older people. Sunlight is the major preventable risk factor for skin cancer. Non-melanoma skin cancer is the commonest malignancy in a pale skinned older population, but the mortality is extremely low. Intermittent sun exposure is a risk factor for the more dangerous melanoma but chronic sun exposure and outdoor occupation may be protective. Public health advice has tended to concentrate on the dangers of sun exposure despite the absence of any data that increased sun exposure correlates with raised all-cause mortality. Inadequate sun exposure carries its own risks, and the older population are particularly sun deprived as recorded by low serum Vitamin D levels and lack of outdoor activity. Sunlight has health benefits dependently and independently of vitamin D synthesis. Low serum vitamin D levels correlate with increased morbidity and mortality but the direction of association is not always clear. Vitamin D has a causal role in calcium and phosphate metabolism, in skeletal health and probably reduction of colorectal cancer. Evidence is weak for a role in cardiovascular health, but mobilisation of nitric oxide by UVA radiation from nitrate stores in skin, with consequent reduction in BP, may account for the observed reduction in cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality with increased sun exposure. Advice on healthy sun exposure needs to be reconsidered, with reduction in all-cause mortality and morbidity as the primary end point.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether physicians followed a hospital policy permitting them to not offer cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to patients considered unlikely to benefit from this therapy. DESIGN: Prospective series. SETTING: San Francisco General Hospital, a university-affiliated public hospital. PATIENTS: Attending physicians were interviewed about patients admitted over a period of 5 consecutive months for whom do-not resuscitate (DNR) orders were written. Only the first patient for whom each physician wrote a DNR order was included. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Responses of physicians to questions regarding their initiation of DNR orders for these patients. RESULTS: Sixty-nine physicians responded to questions about DNR orders written for 69 patients. Fifty-seven of these physicians said that they were aware of the hospital policy, and 49 of the 57 physicians said that they generally agreed with it. Thirty-three physicians felt that CPR should be offered only to patients likely to benefit from it. In contrast, 36 physicians said that CPR should be offered to all patients, regardless of benefit. CPR was offered to 41 patients and 15 surrogates; 27 of these patients were considered to be unlikely to benefit from CPR. CONCLUSION: Despite a policy that allows them to do otherwise, physicians usually offered CPR to patients, regardless of benefit. Most physicians believed that CPR should be offered to all patients. These findings suggest that policies such as that of San Francisco General Hospital may not be compelling because physicians hold attitudes that are inconsistent with the policies.
A survey of anelloviruses in swine herds from Britanny, France, is reported. By using PCR targeted to the conserved untranslated region, prevalences of 93 and 73 % were found among 15 herds and 33 animals, respectively. The lung was the organ found to be positive most frequently among the five organs tested from 32 animals. The highest identity levels of our nucleotide sequences were found with pig isolates from Japan and with an isolate from Tupaia belangeri. Interestingly, when aligning all available swine isolates from France and Japan, at least two phylogenetic groups were identified, each one containing clones from France and Japan. Some animals carried clones from both groups, demonstrating intra-individual variability. Despite the putative harmlessness of anelloviruses, the potential inoculum carried by pigs must be further evaluated as a sanitary threat.
Herbalism is the oldest therapeutic system useful also ayurvedic medicine. Homepathy uses small doses of various substances to stimulate autoregulatory and self-healing processes. Medicines are prepared by serial dilution and shaking, which proponents claim imprints information into water. Ayurveda is a holistic form of therapy. In this meaning herbalism selects substances by matching a patient's symptoms with symptoms produced by these substances in healthy individuals. The some substances useful in dentistry were showed in this letter.
BACKGROUND: The enrichment and importance of some aromatic residues, such as Tyr and Trp, have been widely noticed at the binding interfaces of antibodies from many experimental and statistical results, some of which were even identified as "hot spots" contributing significantly greater to the binding affinity than other amino acids. However, how these aromatic residues influence the immune binding still deserves further investigation. A large-scale examination was done regarding the local spatial environment around the interfacial Tyr or Trp residues. Energetic contribution of these Tyr and Trp residues to the binding affinity was then studied regarding 82 representative antibody interfaces covering 509 immune complexes from the PDB database and IMGT/3Dstructure-DB. RESULTS: The connectivity analysis of interfacial residues showed that Tyr and Trp tended to cluster into the spatial Aromatic Islands (AI) rather than being distributed randomly at the antibody interfaces. Out of 82 antibody-antigen complexes, 72% (59) interfaces were found to contain AI with more than 3 aromatic residues. The statistical test against an empirical distribution indicated that the existence of AI was significant in about 60% representative antibody interfaces. Secondly, the loss of solvent accessible surface area (SASA) for side chains of aromatic residues between actually crowded state and independent state was nicely correlated with the AI size increasing in a linearly positive way which indicated that the aromatic side chains in AI tended to take a compact and ordered stacking conformation at the interfaces. Interestingly, the SASA loss of AI was also correlated roughly with the averaged gap of binding free energy between the theoretical and experimental data for immune complexes. CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study revealed the wide existence and statistical significance of "Aromatic Island" (AI) composed of the spatially clustered Tyr and Trp residues at the antibody interfaces. The regular arrangement and stacking of aromatic side chains in AI could probably produce extra cooperative effects to the binding affinity which was firstly observed through the large-scale data analysis. The finding in this work not only provides insights into the functional role of aromatic residues in the antibody-antigen interaction, but also may facilitate the antibody engineering and potential clinical applications.
Hapten-binding bispecific antibodies (bsAbs) are effective and versatile tools for targeting diverse payloads, including siRNAs, to specific cells and tissues. In this chapter, we provide examples for successful SiRNA delivery using this powerful targeting platform. We further provide protocols for designing and producing bsAbs, for combining bsAbs with SiRNA into functional complexes, and achieving specific mRNA knockdown in cells by using these functional complexes.
Assisted reproductive technology (ART) increasingly is associated with long-term side-effects on postnatal development and behaviors. High-throughput gene expression analysis has been extensively used to explore mechanisms responsible for these disorders. Our study, for the first time, provides a comparative proteomic analysis between embryos after in vivo fertilization and development (IVO, control) and in vitro fertilization and culture (IVP). By comparing the dynamic proteome during the postimplantation period, we identified 300 and 262 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between IVO and IVP embryos at embryonic day 7.5 (E7.5) and E10.5, respectively. Bioinformatic analysis showed many DEPs functionally associated with post-transcriptional, translational, and post-translational regulation, and these observations were consistent with correlation analysis between mRNA and protein abundance. In addition to altered gene expression due to IVP procedures, our findings suggest that aberrant processes at these various levels also contributed to proteomic alterations. In addition, numerous DEPs were involved in energy and amino acid metabolism, as well as neural and sensory development. These DEPs are potential candidates for further exploring the mechanism(s) of ART-induced intrauterine growth restriction and neurodevelopmental disorders. Moreover, significant enrichment of DEPs in pathways of neurodegenerative diseases implies the potentially increased susceptibility of ART offspring to these conditions as adults.
Cell differentiation markers on placental villi from the first trimester of human pregnancy have been studied by indirect immunofluorescence. Fluorescence labelling with antibodies against CD34 and CD31 was conspicuous in the vascular cells. The vascular paracellular clefts were labelled by anti-cadherin-5. A few vascular cells exhibited a positive reaction for von Willebrand factor, high-molecular-weight melanoma-associated-antibody and alpha-sm-actin compared to term pregnancy, indicating changes in protein expression during vascular differentiation. The poor anti-collagen IV reaction and the absence of a sm-myosin fluorescent signal observed around the vessels confirned the immaturity of the vessels. In contrast, strong reactions have previously been obtained with the latter antibodies in similar locations using term placental villi. A labelling was observed for antibodies against alpha3 and alpha5 integrins in these immature placental vessels suggesting cell-matrix interactions with specific domains of laminin or fibronectin. The vascular cells were also stained by anti-CD26. Surprisingly, the fetal vascular cells exhibited immunostainings in common with the villous cytotrophoblast (CD26) or the syncytiotrophoblast (cadherin-5) and cell islands cytotrophoblast (CD31, cadherin-5, alpha3 and alpha5 integrin subunits). These observations suggested a two step process for fetal vasculogenesis in the villi: i/ the formation of peripheral vessels induced by growth factors or cytokines derived from the nearby trophoblast, ii/ the development of muscular vessels due to growth factors or cytokines production induced by circulatory changes.
Shortly after the discovery of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) in 1997, many clinical trials were conducted using EPCs as a cellular based therapy with the goal of restoring damaged organ function by inducing growth of new blood vessels (angiogenesis). Results were disappointing, largely because the cellular and molecular mechanisms of EPC-induced angiogenesis were not clearly understood. Following injection, EPCs must migrate to the target tissue and engraft prior to induction of angiogenesis. In this study EPC migration was investigated in response to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), a pro-inflammatory cytokine, to test the hypothesis that organ damage observed in ischemic diseases induces an inflammatory signal that is important for EPC homing. In this study, EPC migration and incorporation were modeled in vitro using a coculture assay where TNFalpha treated EPCs were tracked while migrating toward vessel-like structures. It was found that TNFalpha treatment of EPCs increased migration and incorporation into vessel-like structures. Using a combination of genomic and proteomic approaches, NF-kB mediated upregulation of CADM1 was identified as a mechanism of TNFalpha induced migration. Inhibition of NF-kB or CADM1 significantly decreased migration of EPCs in vitro suggesting a role for TNFalpha signaling in EPC homing during tissue repair. Stem Cells 2016;34:1922-1933.
The purpose of this study was to examine factors affecting the development of nursing competence in the writing of N3 (clinical nurse level III) case reports. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 13 hospitals in southern Taiwan from July to October, 2002. The subjects included 239 nurses who had passed N3 case report accreditation. The results show that (1) nurses rated their current competence at a fairly good level ( 5.57 +/- 0.74). There was no significant difference between nurses ' subjective self-evaluation and supervisors ' objective evaluation (5.57 +/- 0.74 vs 5.55 +/- 0.89; t = 0.162, p = 0.871). (2) The nurses ' self-rating, supervisors ', and colleagues ' evaluation all indicated moderate progress in nursing competence after writing N3 case reports. The progress scores rated by nurses themselves, supervisors and colleagues were not significantly different (4.89 +/- 1.35 vs. 4.84 +/- 1.57 vs. 4.84 + 1.26; F = 0.096, p =.909). This finding reveals that writing N3 case reports has a positive effect on nursing competence. (3) The results also indicate that ' Attitude toward N3 case report ', 'Writing difficulty ', ' Preparation for writing case report ' were the three predicting factors of progress in nursing competence, which accounted for 26.2 % of the total variance. Therefore we recommend that N3 advancement education should include guidance in alleviating writing difficulty and emphasis on implementing various types of preparation for writing case reports, as effective ways to improve nursing competence.
Installing membranes for solid-liquid separation into biological nutrient removal (BNR) activated sludge (AS) systems makes a profound difference not only in the design of the BNR system itself, but also in the design approach for the whole wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). In multizone BNR systems with membranes in the aerobic reactor and fixed volumes for the anaerobic, anoxic, and aerobic zones (i.e., fixed volume fractions), the mass fractions can be controlled (within a range) with the interreactor recycle ratios. This zone mass fraction flexibility is a significant advantage in membrane BNR systems over conventional BNR systems with SSTs, because it allows for changing of the mass fractions to optimize biological N and P removal in conformity with influent wastewater characteristics and the effluent N and P concentrations required. For PWWF/ADWF ratios in the upper range (f(q) approximately 2.0), aerobic mass fractions in the lower range (f(maer) < 0.60), and high (usually raw) wastewater strengths, the indicated mode of operation of MBR BNR systems is as extended aeration WWTPs. Although the volume reduction compared with equivalent conventional BNR systems with secondary settling tanks is not as large (40% to 60%), the cost of the membranes can be offset against sludge thickening and stabilization costs. Moving from a flow-unbalanced raw wastewater system to a flow-balanced (f(q) = 1), low (usually settled) wastewater strength system can double the ADWF capacity of the biological reactor, but the design approach of the WWTP changes from extended aeration to include primary sludge stabilization. The cost of primary sludge treatment then has to be paid from the savings from the increased WWTP capacity.
Enterococcus faecium NCIMB 10415 reduces diarrhoea incidence and duration in animals and human study subjects. We tested whether the strain is also capable of reducing chronic gut inflammation and aimed to identify mechanisms that are involved in possible probiotic effects. To identify health-promoting mechanisms of the strain, we used interleukin-10-deficient mice that spontaneously develop gut inflammation and fed these mice a diet containing NCIMB 10415 for 3, 8 and 24 weeks, respectively. Control mice were fed a diet which was identically composed but did not contain the strain. After 3 weeks of intervention the experimental animals were less inflamed in the caecum than the control animals. This effect was not observed in the colon and there were no differences between experimental and control mice at any other time point. The application of the strain was associated with higher expression levels of interferon gamma and interferon gamma-induced protein 10 after 3 and 24 but not after 8 weeks of feeding. No differences between the animals were observed in intestinal barrier function or intestinal microbiota composition. However, we observed a low abundance of the mucin-degrading bacterium Akkermansia muciniphila in the mice that were fed NCIMB 10415 for 8 weeks. These low cell numbers were associated with a significantly lower caecal inflammation score and improved paracellular permeability as compared to the NCIMB-treated mice that were killed after 3 and 24 weeks of intervention. In conclusion, NCIMB 10415 is not capable of reducing gut inflammation in the IL-10-/- mouse model. The exact role of A. muciniphila and of a possible interaction between this bacterium, NCIMB 10415 and the host in gut inflammation requires further investigation.
BACKGROUNDS AND AIMS: Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is a novel marker that has been shown to exert protective functions on atherosclerosis by preventing oxidative modification of serum lipoproteins. In this study, we investigated the effects of PON1 on CA-IMT in renal transplant patients. METHODS: A total of 98 adult renal transplant recipients was enrolled in the study. CA-IMT was determined by B-mode Doppler ultrasonography. PON-1 activity was assessed by the rate of enzymatic hydrolysis of paraoxon to p-nitrophenol. RESULTS: Mean age was 39.4 +/- 9.6 years and 10% of the patients were diabetic. Time after transplant was 76 +/- 59 months. Mean PON1 level was 62.1 +/- 43.3 U/l. PON1 levels were negatively correlated with CA-IMT and positively with HDL cholesterol. Mean CA-IMT was 0.62 +/- 0.10 mm (0.40 - 0.98). CA-IMT was positively correlated with age, male gender and negatively with proteinuria and PON1 levels. In linear regression analysis, PON1 levels were associated with CA-IMT. CONCLUSION: Reduced PON1 activity is significantly associated with increased carotid atherosclerosis in renal transplant patients.
AIMS: We compared four common methods for measuring DNA methylation levels and recommended the most efficient method in terms of cost and coverage. MATERIALS & METHODS: The DNA methylation status of liver and stomach tissues was profiled using four different methods, whole-genome bisulphite sequencing (WG-BS), targeted bisulphite sequencing (Targeted-BS), methylated DNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeDIP-seq) and methylated DNA immunoprecipitation bisulphite sequencing (MeDIP-BS). We calculated DNA methylation levels using each method and compared the results. RESULTS: MeDIP-BS yielded the most similar DNA methylation profile to WG-BS, with 20 times less data, suggesting remarkable cost savings and coverage efficiency compared with the other methods. CONCLUSION: MeDIP-BS is a practical cost-effective method for analyzing whole-genome DNA methylation that is highly accurate at base-pair resolution.
BACKGROUND: Meta-analysis is a major theme in biomedical research. In the present paper we introduce a package for R and Bioconductor that provides useful tools for performing this type of work. One idea behind the development of MADAM was that many meta-analysis methods, which are available in R, are not able to use the capacities of parallel computing yet. In this first version, we implemented one meta-analysis method in such a parallel manner. Additionally, we provide tools for combining the results from a set of methods in an ensemble approach. Functionality for visualization of results is also provided. RESULTS: The presented package enables the carrying out of meta-analysis either by providing functions directly or by wrapping them to existing implementations. Overall, five different meta-analysis methods are now usable through MADAM, along with another three methods for combining the corresponding results. Visualizing the results is eased by three included functions. For developing and testing meta-analysis methods, a mock up data generator is integrated. CONCLUSIONS: The use of MADAM enables a user to focus on one package, in turn enabling them to work with the same data types across a set of methods. By making use of the snow package, MADAM can be made compatible with an existing parallel computing infrastructure. MADAM is open source and freely available within CRAN http://cran.r-project.org.
In a control population of 127 healthy adults in the West of Ireland, the possession of the HLA-antigens associated with idiopathic haemochromatosis (IH), i.e. HLA-A3, B7 and B14 was not accompanied by higher levels of serum iron, total iron binding capacity (TIBC) or transferrin saturation (TS%). HLA-A3 does not appear to confer enhanced ability to absorb dietary iron.
Sex differentiation of the male reproductive tract in mammals is driven, in part, by fetal androgen production. In utero, some phthalate esters (PEs) alter fetal Leydig cell differentiation, reducing the expression of several genes associated with steroid synthesis/transport, and consequently, lowering fetal androgen and Insl3 hormone levels. Simvastatin (SMV) is a cholesterol-lowering drug that directly inhibits HMG-CoA reductase. SMV may also disrupt steroid biosynthesis, but through a different mode of action (MOA) than the PEs. As cholesterol is a precursor of steroid hormone biosynthesis, we hypothesized that in utero exposure to SMV during the critical period of sex differentiation would lower fetal testicular testosterone (T) production without affecting genes involved in cholesterol and androgen synthesis and transport. Secondly, we hypothesized that a mixture of SMV and a PE, which may have different MOAs, would reduce testosterone levels in an additive manner. Pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were dosed orally with SMV, dipentyl phthalate (DPeP), or SMV plus DPeP from gestational days 14-18, and fetuses were evaluated on GD18. On GD18, SMV lowered fetal T production and serum triglycerides, low density lipoprotein, high density lipoprotein, and total cholesterol levels, and downregulated two genes in the fetal testis that were different from those altered by PEs. When SMV and DPeP were administered as a mixture, fetal T production was significantly reduced in an additive manner, thus demonstrating that a mixture of chemicals can induce additive effects on fetal T production even though they display different MOAs.
Carbohydrate-protein interactions play a critical role in a variety of biological processes, and agonists/antagonists of these interactions are useful as biological probes and therapeutic agents. Most carbohydrate-binding proteins achieve tight binding through formation of a multivalent complex. Therefore, both ligand structure and presentation contribute to recognition. Since there are many potential combinations of structure, spacing, and orientation to consider and the optimal one cannot be predicted, high-throughput approaches for analyzing carbohydrate-protein interactions and designing inhibitors are appealing. In this report, we develop a strategy to vary neoglycoprotein density on a surface of a glycan array. This feature of presentation was combined with variations in glycan structure and glycan density to produce an array with approximately 600 combinations of glycan structure and presentation. The unique array platform allows one to distinguish between different types of multivalent complexes on the array surface. To illustrate the advantages of this format, it was used to rapidly identify multivalent probes for various lectins. The new array was first tested with several plant lectins, including concanavalin A (conA), Vicia villosa isolectin B4 (VVL-B(4)), and Ricinus communis agglutinin (RCA120). Next, it was used to rapidly identify potent multivalent inhibitors of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lectin I (PA-IL), a key protein involved in opportunistic infections of P. aeruginosa , and mouse macrophage galactose-type lectin (mMGL-2), a protein expressed on antigen presenting cells that may be useful as a vaccine targeting receptor. An advantage of the approach is that structural information about the lectin/receptor is not required to obtain a multivalent inhibitor/probe.
The effects of poliovirus 3A protein expression and poliovirus infection on the presentation of hepatitis C virus antigens in cultured chimpanzee cells were examined. Expression of poliovirus 3A protein inhibits protein secretion when expressed in isolation and was sufficient to protect chimpanzee cells from lysis by hepatitis C virus-specific cytotoxic T cells in standard (51)Cr-release assays. Poliovirus infection also inhibited antigen presentation, as determined by decreased cytotoxic T cell activation. A mutation in 3A that abrogates the inhibition of protein secretion also abolished the effects of poliovirus on antigen presentation. These results demonstrate that the inhibition of secretion observed in poliovirus-infected cells substantially reduces the presentation of new antigens on the cell surface. These observations may reflect a general mechanism by which nonenveloped viruses such as poliovirus and other viruses that do not require a functional protein secretory apparatus can evade detection by the cellular immune response.
The peritoneum is a serous membrane, which has a protective function for the contents of the abdominal cavity. It maintains homeostasis by allowing exchange of molecules and production of peritoneal fluid, thus providing an environment in which intra-abdominal organs can function properly. When traumatized, whether by surgery or due to inflammatory processes, a series of responses come into action to regenerate the injured part of the peritoneum. The inflammatory reaction causes influx of inflammatory cells but also activates resident mesothelial cells, ultimately leading to a fibrinous exudate. Depending on the severity of the trauma this exudate is transient due to fibrinolysis, or becomes more dense as a result of fibroblasts persisting, leading to fibrinous adhesions. A pivotal role is taken by the enzyme plasmin and its promotors and inhibitors; it is mainly the tissue-type plasminogen activator/plasminogen activator inhibitor ratio which determines the rate of fibrinolysis and therefore the rate of adhesion formation. The rate of injury determines the rate and extent of the inflammatory response to that injury; in its turn the inflammatory reaction determines the extent of adhesion formation. One should realize this when performing intra-abdominal surgery, which is in fact operating inside the peritoneal organ.
BACKGROUND: Metastatic melanoma is a highly chemotherapy resistant tumour. The use of newer targeted therapies alone and in combination with chemotherapy may offer new hope of improving response to treatment. Dasatinib, a multi-target kinase inhibitor, is currently approved for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukaemia and has shown promising results in preclinical studies in a number of solid tumours. METHODS: We examined the effects of dasatinib on proliferation, chemo-sensitivity, cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, migration and invasion in human melanoma cell lines. Expression and activation of Src kinase, FAK and EphA2 were also examined in the melanoma cells. RESULTS: Dasatinib inhibited growth of three of the five melanoma cell lines. Comparison with sorafenib showed that in these three cell lines dasatinib inhibited growth at lower concentrations than sorafenib. Dasatinib in combination with the chemotherapy drug temozolomide showed greater efficacy than either drug alone. Dasatinib induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis and significantly inhibited cell migration and invasion of melanoma cells. Dasatinib inhibition of proliferation was associated with reduced phosphorylation of Src kinase, while decreased phosphorylation of FAK was implicated in dasatinib-mediated inhibition of migration and invasion in melanoma cells. CONCLUSION: Dasatinib has both anti-proliferative and anti-invasive effects in melanoma cells and combined with chemotherapy may have clinical benefit in the treatment of malignant melanoma.
BACKGROUND: The altered expression of the Lewis blood group-related antigens during malignant transformation can be used clinically as a tumor marker or as a prognostic indicator. The Lewis Y (LeY) antigen, which is one of the Type 2 human blood group-related antigens, also is thought to behave as an oncodevelopmental cancer-associated antigen. In this study, the authors examined the association between human LeY antigen expression and the clinicopathologic features of HCC, including its proliferative activity. METHODS: Forty-six histologically confirmed cases of HCC were studied retrospectively. Liver biopsy specimens from the main tumor of each case were obtained under ultrasonic guidance before treatment was initiated. The formalin fixed, paraffin embedded serial sections were immunostained using a modification of the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method, with a primary monoclonal antibody (MoAb) directed against the LeY antigen (BM-1/JIMRO). The relationship between LeY antigen expression and the HCC's proliferative activity was analyzed similarly by immunohistochemical methods using a primary MoAb directed against the Ki-67 antigen (MIB 1). In addition, to clarify the relationship between LeY antigen expression and the histologic heterogeneity within HCC, seven cases of surgically resected HCC also were immunostained. RESULTS: The LeY antigen was detected on the membrane and in the cytoplasm of the cancer cells. Of the 46 HCC cases, 20 (43.5%) expressed the LeY antigen in the tumor cells. There was no correlation between LeY antigen expression and the maximum tumor dimension or the Stage. However, the incidence of LeY antigen-positive cases in poorly differentiated HCCs was found to be significantly higher than that in well or moderately differentiated HCCs (P < 0.01). In resected HCC cases, LeY antigen expression within HCC nodules was frequently greater in the less differentiated tumor than in adjacent differentiated tumor. Moreover, the incidence of LeY antigen expression in alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)-positive (AFP > or = 200 ng/ml) HCC cases was significantly higher than that in AFP-negative (AFP < 200 ng/ml) HCC cases (P < 0.05). Furthermore, the mean value of the Ki-67 labeling index in LeY antigen-positive HCC cases (25.2 +/- 11.3%) was significantly higher than that in LeY antigen-negative HCC cases (9.4 +/- 4.1%) (P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that LeY antigen expression correlated closely to the dedifferentiation and proliferative activity of HCC.
Shigellosis is a global human health problem and the incidence is highest among children. In the present work, main Shigella virulence genes was examined by PCR and compared to symptoms of pediatric shigellosis. Thirty Shigella isolates were identified from an etiologic study at which 1,339 children ranging 0-10 years old were enrolled. S. flexneri was the most frequent species reaching 60.0% of isolates, 22.2% were S. sonnei, and 6.6% were both S. dysenteriae and S. boydii. All Shigella infected children had diarrhea, but not all were accompanied by others symptoms of bacillary dysentery. Among major virulence genes, the PCR typing revealed ipaBCD was present in all isolates, followed by IpaH7.8, set-1A, set-1B, sen/ospD3, virF, and invE. The pathogenic potential of the ShET-1B subunit was observed in relation to dehydration (P < 0.001) and ShET-2 related to the intestinal injury (P = 0.033) evidenced by the presence of bloody diarrhea. Our results show associations among symptoms of shigellosis and virulence genes of clinical isolates of Shigella spp.
To be effective as a gatekeeper regulating the access of binding proteins to the actin filament, adjacent tropomyosin molecules associate head-to-tail to form a continuous super-helical cable running along the filament surface. Chimeric head-to-tail structures have been solved by NMR and X-ray crystallography for N- and C-terminal segments of smooth and striated muscle tropomyosin spliced onto non-native coiled-coil forming peptides. The resulting 4-helix complexes have a tight coiled-coil N-terminus inserted into a separated pair of C-terminal helices, with some helical unfolding of the terminal chains in the striated muscle peptides. These overlap complexes are distinctly curved, much more so than elsewhere along the superhelical tropomyosin cable. To verify whether the non-native protein adducts (needed to stabilize the coiled-coil chimeras) perturb the overlap, we carried out Molecular Dynamics simulations of head-to-tail structures having only native tropomyosin sequences. We observe that the splayed chains all refold and become helical. Significantly, the curvature of both the smooth and the striated muscle overlap domain is reduced and becomes comparable to that of the rest of the tropomyosin cable. Moreover, the measured flexibility across the junction is small. This and the reduced curvature ensure that the super-helical cable matches the contours of F-actin without manifesting localized kinking and excessive flexibility, thus enabling the high degree of cooperativity in the regulation of myosin accessibility to actin filaments.
OBJECTIVE: The novel clinical prediction approach of Bayesian neural networks with fuzzy logic inferences is created and applied to derive prognostic decision rules in cerebral aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH). METHODS: The approach of Bayesian neural networks with fuzzy logic inferences was applied to data from five trials of Tirilazad for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (3551 patients). RESULTS: Bayesian meta-analyses of observational studies on aSAH prognostic factors gave generalizable posterior distributions of population mean log odd ratios (ORs). Similar trends were noted in Bayesian and linear regression ORs. Significant outcome predictors include normal motor response, cerebral infarction, history of myocardial infarction, cerebral edema, history of diabetes mellitus, fever on day 8, prior subarachnoid hemorrhage, admission angiographic vasospasm, neurological grade, intraventricular hemorrhage, ruptured aneurysm size, history of hypertension, vasospasm day, age and mean arterial pressure. Heteroscedasticity was present in the nontransformed dataset. Artificial neural networks found nonlinear relationships with 11 hidden variables in 1 layer, using the multilayer perceptron model. Fuzzy logic decision rules (centroid defuzzification technique) denoted cut-off points for poor prognosis at greater than 2.5 clusters. DISCUSSION: This aSAH prognostic system makes use of existing knowledge, recognizes unknown areas, incorporates one's clinical reasoning, and compensates for uncertainty in prognostication.
CONTEXT: Although the general pharmacokinetics of cephalexin is quite established up-to-date, however, no population-based study on Cephalexin pharmacokinetics profile in Malay population has been reported yet in the literature. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics and to compare the bioavailability of three cephalexin products, Ospexin(R) versus MPI Cephalexin(R) tablet and MPI Cephalexin(R) capsule, in healthy Malay ethnic male volunteers in Malaysia. MATERIAL AND METHOD: A single dose, randomized, fasting, three-period, three-treatment, three-sequence crossover, open label bioequivalence study was conducted in 24 healthy Malay adult male volunteers, with 1 week washout period. The drug concentration in the sample was analyzed using high performance liquid chromatography. RESULT: The mean (SD) pharmacokinetic parameter results of Ospexin(R) were Cmax, 17.39 (4.15) mug/mL; AUC0-6, 28.90 (5.70) microg/mL * h; AUC0-infinity, 30.07 (5.94) microg/mL * h; while, those of MPI Cephalexin(R) tablet were Cmax, 18.29 (3.01) mug/mL; AUC0-6, 30.02 (4.80) microg/mL * h; AUC00-infinity, 31.33 (5.18) microg/mL * h and MPI Cephalexin(R) capsule were Cmax, 18.25 (3.92) mug/mL; AUC0-6, 30.04 (5.13) microg/mL * h; AUC0-infinity, 31.22 (5.29) microg/mL * h. CONCLUSION: The 90% confidence intervals for the logarithmic transformed Cmax, AUC0-6 and AUC0-infinity, of Ospexin(R) versus MPI Cephalexin(R) tablet and Ospexin(R) versus MPI Cephalexin(R) capsule were between 0.80 and 1.25. Both Cmax and AUC met the predetermined criteria for assuming bioequivalence. The pharmacokinetic profile of cephalexin in Malay population does not vary much from other world population.
The role of glucocorticoid receptors in the analgesic effect of corticotropin-releasing factor in rats was studied after glucocorticoid receptor blockade with antagonist RU 38486. Glucocorticoid hormones can potentiate the analgesic effect of corticotropin-releasing factor or modulate the mechanisms of this effect, which depends on the type of painful stimulus.
BACKGROUND: Vaginal candidiasis (VC) is a disease that affects thousands of women of childbearing age, mainly caused by Candida albicans fungus. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) uses photosensitizing substances that are nontoxic in the dark, but able to produce reactive oxygen species when they are subjected to a light source. In this work our purpose was to investigate PDT effects on fungal burden and inflammatory cells in a murine model of C. albicans-induced vaginal candidiasis. METHODS: Female BALB/c mice 6-10 weeks were estrogenized and maintained in this state during all experiment. After 72h, mices were inoculated intravaginally (IV) with 20muL of 2x10(5)C. albicans cells suspension. Mice were separated into 5 groups after five days: H (healthy), PBS (control), laser, MB (methylene blue) and PDT. PDT and MB groups received IV 20muL solution with 1mM of MB, others received PBS. PDT and laser groups were irradiated with a red laser (100mW, 660nm) in one (36J, 6min) or two sessions (18J, 3min). After the end of treatment, mice were submitted to microbiological and histomorphometric analysis with ImageJ software. Data were plotted by mean values and standard deviations of CFU/mL and percentage of inflammatory cells area. ANOVA and Bonferroni post-test were used and data were considered significant when p<0.05. RESULTS: PDT significantly reduced C. albicans after the two tested protocols, however, percentage area of inflammatory cells was significantly reduced just with two sessions of PDT. CONCLUSIONS: PDT with MB and red laser is a promising therapy for VC. It is able to reduce fungal infection in biofilm and inflammatory signals associated with VC in a murine model of vaginitis.
INTRODUCTION: Evaluation and monitoring of primary health care requires the establishment and maintenance of an appropriate data system. This study reviews the application and effectiveness of the Communicare data management system in the delivery of health services to the Fitzroy Valley in the Kimberley region of Western Australia. METHODS: Key demographic fields (sex, date of birth and Aboriginal status) were examined for completeness (whether the date fields were all completed and correct when compared with the paper file) while the 'conditions' field was examined for accuracy. Three chronic diseases (diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease) in adults and age-specific incidence for four acute diseases (otitis media, gastroenteritis, lower respiratory tract infection and skin infection) in children were included. RESULTS: Completeness of chosen demographic fields was 100% for date of birth and sex and 98% for Aboriginal status. Chronic conditions matched the paper files 100%, while the recording of acute conditions was incomplete. Among older adults (>/=55 years) the prevalences of diabetes, chronic kidney disease and hypertension were 43%, 42% and 39% respectively. Age-specific incidence of acute conditions was highest in the 0-4 years age group where 25% had had at least one episode of otitis media and 20% at least one episode of skin infection. CONCLUSIONS: The recording of demographic and chronic disease data was complete, but lower for acute conditions. Routinely collected data have a number of limitations, but nonetheless are a feasible way to establish population health indices, particularly for chronic diseases for this remote health service with minimal expenditure and effort. These rates provide useful baselines for monitoring and evaluating the impact of service delivery on health outcomes. This audit provides an indication of the accuracy of routinely collected data in the electronic system compared to the paper medical records, which have traditionally been considered the gold standard. Data collected on chronic disease information were accurate and clinically useful for health service planning, monitoring and evaluation. Acute disease data were not accurate enough to be clinically useful.
The recently observed high levels of fecal indicators in beach sand confound beach water monitoring efforts. The high levels of fecal indicators may be caused by the loss or the reduced activities of common environmental stresses controlling die-off in the sand. Microcosm experiments were conducted to compare the effects of biotic stresses from autochthonous sand bacteria, protozoa, and viruses on Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis in two tropical beach sands. The inhibition of protozoan activities by cycloheximide did not significantly affect the die-off of E. coli, indicating that protozoan predation played a limited role in beach sand. The contribution from phage infection to E. coli die-off was also negligible. Consequently, autochthonous bacteria were identified as the predominant biotic stress to the die-off of E. coli in beach sand. Subsequent experiments demonstrated that the beach sand had a very low protozoan concentration and low protozoan growth potential when compared with various environmental samples. Co-culturing of E. coli with autochthonous sand bacterial isolates significantly enhanced E. coli die-off. PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis revealed a complex sand bacterial community, suggesting that bacterial antagonistic effects may be widespread. The study also found that E. faecalis exhibited a much longer survival in beach sand compared with E. coli.
The efficacy of several chelating agents in alleviating acute lead intoxication has been investigated in male Swiss mice. The relative effectiveness of diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), ethyleneglycolbis-(beta-amino-ethylether)-N,N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), cyclohexanediaminetetraacetic acid (CDTA), L-cysteine, N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), ascorbic acid, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC), 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) and sodium 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonate (DMPS) in reducing lethality of lead was examined. Significant increases in survival were noted with CDTA, ascorbic acid, DMSA, and DMPS. Therapeutic effectiveness (TEF) was determined for these compounds; TEF for ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and for 2,3-dimercaptopropanol (BAL) was also determined; CDTA (2.33) and EDTA (1.73) showed the highest values. In subsequent experiments, the effect of the chelating agents on the distribution and excretion of lead was investigated. Lead acetate trihydrate was administered subcutaneously at doses of 37.8 mmol/kg (LD50), and fifteen minutes later, chelators were given intraperitoneally at doses approximately equal to one-fourth of their respective LD50 values. EDTA, DTPA and CDTA were the most effective agents in increasing the urinary excretion of lead, whereas DTPA, CDTA, and DDC increased significantly the fecal excretion of lead. EDTA, DDC, and CDTA were the most effective chelators in reducing the concentration of lead found in various tissues. On the basis of these results, CDTA may be considered as an alternative in the treatment of acute lead poisoning.
The cytochromes P450 are heme-based mono-oxygenases or peroxygenases involved in vital reaction processes for human health. A recently described P450 per-oxygenase, OleTJE , converts long-chain fatty acids to terminal olefins and as such may have biotechnological relevance in biodiesel production. However, the reaction produces significant amounts of alpha- and beta-hydroxylation by-products, and their origin are poorly understood. Herein, we elucidate through a QM/MM study on the bifurcation pathways how the three possible products are generated and show how the enzyme can be further engineered for optimum desaturase activity. The studies showed that the polarity and the solvent accessibility of the substrate in the binding pocket destabilize the OH-rebound pathways and kinetically enable a thermodynamically otherwise unfavorable decarboxylation reaction. The origins of the bifurcation pathways are analyzed with valence-bond models that highlight the differences in reaction mechanism.
We show that the gastric hormone gastrin induces the expression of the prosurvival secretory clusterin (sCLU) in rat adenocarcinoma cells. Clusterin mRNA was still upregulated in the presence of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, although at a lower level. This indicates that gastrin induces clusterin transcription independently of de novo protein synthesis but requires de novo protein synthesis of signal transduction pathway components to achieve maximal expression level. Luciferase reporter assay indicates that the AP-1 transcription factor complex is involved in gastrin-mediated activation of the clusterin promoter. Gastrin-induced clusterin expression and subsequent secretion is dependent on sustained treatment, because removal of gastrin after 1-2 h abolished the response. Neutralization of secreted clusterin by a specific antibody abolished the antiapoptotic effect of gastrin on serum starvation-induced apoptosis, suggesting that extracellular clusterin is involved in gastrin-mediated inhibition of apoptosis. The clusterin response to gastrin was validated in vivo in hypergastrinemic rats, showing increased clusterin expression in the oxyntic mucosa, as well as higher levels of clusterin in plasma. In normal rat oxyntic mucosa, clusterin protein was strongly expressed in chromogranin A-immunoreactive neuroendocrine cells, of which the main cell type was the histidine decarboxylase-immunoreactive enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell. The association of clusterin with neuroendocrine differentiation was further confirmed in human gastric ECL carcinoids. Interestingly, in hypergastrinemic rats, clusterin-immunoreactive cells formed distinct groups of diverse cells at the base of many glands. Our results suggest that clusterin may contribute to gastrin's growth-promoting effect on the oxyntic mucosa.
A rapid ultra-high-performance liquid chromatographic-tandem mass spectrometric (UHPLC-MS-MS) method has been developed for rapid screening and quantitative analysis of sulfonate derivatives (SDs) in commercial white peony root. Separation was performed on an Agilent Zorbax Eclipse Plus-C18 column by gradient elution with acetonitrile-0.1% (v/v) formic acid as the mobile phase. In-source fragmentation was used to generate the characteristic fragment ion at m/z 259 and to screen for nine SDs. Detection of these SDs was further performed in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode to improve sensitivity and to quantify the two SDs paeoniflorin sulfonate and benzoylpaeoniflorin sulfonate. The method was validated for specificity, linearity, limits of detection and quantification, precision, accuracy, and matrix effects. Nine commercial white peony root samples were examined by use of this method, which revealed great variety in the paeoniflorin sulfonate and benzoylpaeoniflorin sulfonate content.
Trilinolein, isolated from the traditional Chinese herb Sanchi ( Panax notoginseng), has been shown to have myocardial protective effects via its antioxidant ability. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms of the protective effect of trilinolein in the heart remain to be elucidated. Oxidative mechanisms have been implicated in neonatal cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. We therefore have examined whether trilinolein attenuates reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and thus ET-1-induced hypertrophy of cardiomyocytes. Cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were stimulated with ET-1 (10 nM), [3H]leucine incorporation and the beta-myosin heavy chain (beta-MyHC) promoter activity were examined. Trilinolein (1 and 10 microM) inhibited the ET-1-induced increase of [3H]-leucine incorporation in a concentration-dependent manner. Trilinolein (1 and 10 microM) also inhibited ET-1-induced beta-MyHC promoter activity in cardiomyocytes. We further examined the effects of trilinolein on ET-1-induced intracellular ROS generation by measuring a redox-sensitive fluorescent dye, 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin diacetate, fluorescence intensity. Trilinolein (1 and 10 microM) inhibited ET-1-increased intracellular ROS levels in a concentration-dependent manner. This increase of ROS by ET-1 (10 nM) or H2O2 (25 microM) was significantly inhibited by trilinolein (10 microM) and N-acetylcysteine (10 mM). Moreover, ET-1- or H2O2-induced beta-MyHC promoter activity and protein synthesis were also inhibited by trilinolein (10 microM). These data indicate that trilinolein inhibits ET-1-induced beta-MyHC promoter activity, and subsequent hypertrophy via its antioxidant ability in cardiomyocytes.
We report our observations about familial segregations of chromosomal aberrations: the simple forms and complex rearrangements. Congenital malformations and mental retardation, can be present both in unbalanced and in balanced translocations. Various hypotheses have been proposed to explain this phenomenon: in particular a possible "position effect" or genic mutation or genomic imprinting. In our study we have used both standard techniques and techniques with high resolution banding to investigate if the rearrangements were balanced or not. Molecular study and gene dosage have been used when possible, to define the correlation with the clinic phenotype.
The outcome of Helicobacter pylori infection has been related to specific virulence-associated bacterial genotypes. The best known genotypic virulence factors of H. pylori are cytotoxin-associated gene A (cagA) and vacuolating cytotoxin gene A (vacA). The objective of this study was to assess the relationship between H. pylori cagA and vacA status and histopathological findings. Esophagogastrodoedonoscopy was performed in 80 dyspeptic patients. Antrum and corpus biopsies were obtained for isolation of H. pylori and for histopathological assessment. The polymerase chain reaction was used to detect cagA and vacA genes of H. pylori using specific primers. Biopsy samples were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, and histopathological findings were graded using the "updated Sydney system". H. pylori from 57 of the 80 patients was incubated. Of the 57 patients, 44 were cagA positive. In the corpus biopsy specimens there was a significant relationship between the density of H. pylori colonization (P = 0.02) and chronic inflammation (P = 0.02) and cagA-positive genotypes. In the antrum specimens there was a significant relationship between cagA positivity and neutrophil activity (P = 0.003) and glandular atrophy (P = 0.002), but not with H. pylori density, chronic inflammation, and intestinal metaplasia. The odds ratio of cagA-positive vs. cagA-negative strains for the presence of glandular atrophy, irrespective of grading and of gastric localization, was 4.62 (95% CI, 1.18-18.08, P = 0.041). No significant relationships were observed between vacA s1 and s2 genotypes and histopathological parameters. Corpus neutrophil infiltration was found to be more severe in the m1 group than in the m2 group (P = 0.004). Other histopathological features showed no difference between m1 and m2 genotypes. In conclusion H. pylori strains showing cagA positivity are associated with more severe gastritis in some histological features but virulence factors of H. pylori do not appear to determine the overall pattern of gastritis.
BACKGROUND: Perceived social isolation is prevalent among patients with low back pain (LBP) and could be a potential prognostic factor for clinical outcomes following an episode of LBP. METHODS: A secondary analysis of an original prospective cohort study, which investigated the validity of the Danish version of the STarT Back Screening Tool (STarT), investigated whether social isolation predicts the clinical outcomes of disability, anxiety, depression and pain catastrophizing in people with LBP. Patients with LBP of any duration (N = 204) from Middelfart, Denmark, were included. Social isolation was measured at baseline using the friendship scale (score ranges from 0 to 24, with lower values meaning higher perceived social isolation), and outcomes were measured at baseline and at 6-month follow-up. Regression models investigated whether social isolation at baseline predicted the outcomes at 6-month follow-up. RESULTS: Some level of social isolation was reported by 39.2% of the participants (n = 80) with 5.9% (n = 12) being very socially isolated. One-point difference on social isolation predicted one point on a 100-point disability scale (adjusted unstandardized coefficient: -0.91; 95% confidence interval (CI): -1.56 to -0.26). Social isolation predicted anxiety; however, a change of one point on the social isolation scale represents a difference of only 0.08 points on a 22-point scale in anxiety (95% CI: 0.01-0.15) and is unlikely to denote clinical importance. Social isolation did not predict pain catastrophizing or depression. CONCLUSIONS: Patients' perceived social isolation predicts disability related to LBP. Further understanding of the role of social isolation in LBP is warranted.
An accelerated rate of natural-product discovery is critical for the future of ion channel pharmacology. For the full potential of natural products to be realized, an interdisciplinary initiative is required that combines chemical ecology and ion channel physiology. A prime source of future drug leads targeted to ion channels is the vast assortment of compounds that mediate biotic interactions in the marine environment. Many animals have evolved a chemical strategy to change the behavior of their prey, predators or competitors, which appears to require a large set of ion channel-targeted compounds acting in concert. Some of these compounds (e.g., ziconotide [Prialt((R))]) have already found important biomedical applications. The elucidation of molecular mechanisms mediating biotic interactions should yield a rich stream of potent and selective natural products for the drug pipeline.
The objective of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that the application of dynamic compression following transforming growth factor-beta3 (TGF-beta3) induced differentiation will further enhance chondrogenesis of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Porcine MSCs were encapsulated in agarose hydrogels and cultured in a chemically defined medium with TGF-beta3 (10 ng/mL). Dynamic compression (1 Hz, 10% strain, 1 h/day) was initiated at either day 0 or day 21 and continued until day 42 of culture; with TGF-beta3 withdrawn from some groups at day 21. Biochemical and mechanical properties of the MSC-seeded constructs were evaluated up to day 42. The application of dynamic compression from day 0 inhibited chondrogenesis of MSCs. This inhibition of chondrogenesis in response to dynamic compression was not observed if MSC-seeded constructs first underwent 21 days of chondrogenic differentiation in the presence of TGF-beta3. Spatial differences in sGAG accumulation in response to both TGF-beta3 stimulation and dynamic compression were observed within the constructs. sGAG release from the engineered construct into the surrounding culture media was also dependent on TGF-beta3 stimulation, but was not effected by dynamic compression. Continued supplementation with TGF-beta3 appeared to be a more potent chondrogenic stimulus than the application of 1 h of daily dynamic compression following cytokine initiated differentiation. In the context of cartilage tissue engineering, the results of this study suggest that MSC seeded constructs should be first allowed to undergo chondrogenesis in vitro prior to implantation in a load bearing environment.
The lumen of the Golgi apparatus is the subcellular site where galactose is transferred, from UDP-galactose, to the oligosaccharide chains of glycoproteins, glycolipids, and proteoglycans. The nucleotide sugar, which is synthesized in the cytosol, must first be transported into the Golgi lumen by a specific UDP-galactose transporter. Previously, a mutant polarized epithelial cell (MDCKII-RCAr) with a 2% residual rate of transport of UDP-galactose into the lumen of Golgi vesicles was described (Brandli, A. W., Hansson, G. C., Rodriguez-Boulan, E., and Simons, K. (1988) J. Biol. Chem. 263, 16283-16290). The mutant has an enrichment in glucosyl ceramide and cell surface glycoconjugates bearing terminal N-acetylglucosamine, as well as a 75% reduction in sialylation of cell surface glycoproteins and glycosphingolipids. We have now studied the biosynthesis of galactose containing proteoglycans in this mutant and the corresponding parental cell line. Wild-type Madin-Darby canine kidney cells synthesize significant amounts of chondroitin sulfate, heparan sulfate, and keratan sulfate, while the above mutant synthesizes chondroitin sulfate and heparan sulfate but not keratan sulfate, the only proteoglycan containing galactose in its glycosaminoglycan polymer. The mutant also synthesizes chondroitin 6-sulfate rather than only chondroitin 4-sulfate as wild-type cells. Together, the above results demonstrate that the Golgi membrane UDP-galactose transporter is rate-limiting in the supply of UDP-galactose into the Golgi lumen; this in turn results in selective galactosylation of macromolecules. Apparently, the Km for galactosyltransferases involved in the synthesis of linkage regions of heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate are significantly lower than those participating in the synthesis of keratan sulfate polymer, glycoproteins, and glycolipids. The results also suggest that the 6-O-sulfotransferases, in the absence of their natural substrates (keratan sulfate) may catalyze the sulfation of chondroitin 4-sulfate as alternative substrate.
PROBLEM: Expression and hormonal regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines and their role in blastocyst activation and implantation is poorly known. The present study is aimed at analysing the expression and hormonal modulation of two pro-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) and IL-6] in mouse blastocysts during implantation. METHOD OF STUDY: Blastocyst-uterine interactions are inhibited by progesterone during implantation and subsequent treatment with oestrogen triggers events that allow implantation to begin. Using this delayed implantation mouse model, dormant and activated blastocysts were recovered from mice treated with progesterone alone and progesterone plus oestrogen therapy, respectively. Expression of IL-1alpha and IL-6 messenger RNA (mRNA) was analysed in normal, dormant and activated blastocysts by in situ hybridization using specific labelled sense and antisense RNA probes, and the protein expression of the same was analysed by immunocytochemistry. RESULTS: In situ hybridization revealed IL-1alpha and IL-6 mRNA localization in normal, dormant and activated blastocysts and a differential expression was observed in relation to the exposure to progesterone and oestrogen. There was less expression in the dormant blastocysts as compared with the normal and activated ones, and the pattern was similar for both cytokines. Immunocytochemistry also revealed a similar pattern of protein expression to that of the mRNA expression for both the cytokines. CONCLUSIONS: Using a delayed implantation model, we show that mouse blastocysts express both IL-1alpha and IL-6 mRNA as well as their respective proteins. Both mRNA and the protein levels of IL-1alpha and IL-6 seem to be hormonally modulated in mouse blastocysts during implantation.
Clinicopathologic data including immunophenotypic expression of 16 new cases of small intestinal leiomyosarcoma are presented. Patient age ranged from 27 to 87 years (mean, 61 years) with a 2.2:1 male-female ratio. Eighty-eight percent of tumors occurred distally, i.e., in the jejunoileum. Considerable histologic heterogeneity was noted including epithelioid, myxoid, and sclerotic variants. Stratification by histologic grade suggests important clinical subsets. Only in grade I tumors is surgical extirpation alone potentially curative. Grade II tumors are associated with meaningful survival usually measured in years, however, nearly all patients can be expected to die from their tumors. Grade III sarcomas are fully malignant and rapidly progressive: except for one case with limited follow-up, all patients with Grade III sarcomas died of disease with a mean survival of only nine months (median, 2 months). Immunostaining with antibodies directed against vimentin, muscle-specific actin, desmin, and S-100 protein were performed. Only antivimentin was uniformly reactive. Sixty-three percent of cases tested showed actin immunoreactivity, and no tumors revealed immunohistochemically detectable desmin or S-100 protein. Although many small bowel stromal sarcomas appear "poorly differentiated" by immunohistochemical methods presently available, that they are indeed leiomyosarcomas seems most likely from their intramural location and light histologic study. The limited utility of immunophenotyping and the importance of histologic grading are stressed.
In this study, plasmid pBBad22K was modulated to be able to coexpress the subunits of Xanthomonascampestris pv. campestris (Xcc) core RNA polymerase (RNAP) in an Escherichia coli host. The subunit-encoding genes of Xcc core RNAP were PCR-amplified respectively to convert into gene cassettes in which an intact subunit-encoding gene and a ribosome binding site (RBS) preceding the gene were contained, and were then cloned one by one into pBBad22K. In addition, a hexahistidine tag (His-tag) was introduced into the C-terminus of alpha subunit-encoded rpoA during PCR for facilitating purification of Xcc core RNAP. The resultant vectors, pBC-CBA and pBC-CBAZ, were used for overproduction of Xcc core RNAP lacking or containing omega, respectively. The assembly of Xcc core RNAP subunits that were coexpressed from these vectors was demonstrated after purification via two-step column chromatography. The yield of Xcc core RNAP containing omega had a 67% increase compared with that of one lacking omega, indicating that omega promotes the assembly of Xcc core RNAP. In addition, Xcc core RNAP lacking omega showed a 13-fold decrease in enzymatic activity in comparison with that containing omega. Promoter-specific transcription assays by recombinant Xcc core RNAP reconstituted with external added sigma factor showed that the absence of omega debilitates the transcriptional activity of Xcc RNAP. Our results demonstrated that omega is not only capable of strengthening the stability, but is also required for the maintenance of enzymatic activity of Xcc RNAP.
There is a classic controversy in zoology over whether the common ancestor of living bilaterian phyla was a benthic animal with a bilaterian body plan, or was a pelagic larva-like animal similar to what we see today in the primary larvae of indirect-developing bilaterians. We examine the current larva-like adult hypothesis, and present an alternate model for the evolution of complex life histories by intercalation of larval features into the ontogeny of an ancestral direct-developing bilaterian. This gradual accumulation of larval features results in a developmental regulatory program that produces a larva distinct in body plan from the adult. The evolution of a rapid and complete metamorphosis is made possible by the convergent evolution of set aside cells in the final stages of the emergence of indirect developing larval forms. Although convergences abound either hypothesis for the evolution of developmental pathways and life histories, the bilaterian first hypothesis is consistent with all stages of evolution of a complex life history being selectively advantageous, with the rapid evolution of larval forms, and with the frequent co-option of genes from the adult phase of the life cycle prevalent in the evolution of embryos and larvae.
The Epstein Barr virus (EBV) is associated with several lymphoid and epithelial malignancies such as Hodgkin and Burkitt lymphoma or nasopharyngeal carcinoma and it is also the etiological agent of infectious mononucleosis (IM). Transcriptional regulation of the viral oncoprotein LMP1, remains yet not fully understood. LMP1 expression can be initiated in an EBNA2 dependent or independent manner from ED-L1 or LT-R1 promoters. It has been proposed that sequence variation at ED-L1 region could be an important factor concerning LMP1 expression. In order to characterize the natural sequence variation of the ED-L1 promoter, and its relationship with neoplasia, 44 pediatric patients, 17 IM and 27 EBV-associated lymphoma cases from Argentina, were studied. Phylogenetic analysis showed 4 main clusters, namely B95.8, Raji, Cao and P3HR1. Most isolates, 80.3%, conformed the B95.8 group. Co-infection with more than one viral variant was detected in 5/17 IM cases, but no co-infections were detected among lymphoma cases. Moreover, co-infected IM cases exhibited differences between the ED-L1 sequences obtained from different anatomical compartments. Mutations confined to transcription factor binding sites such as SP1/SP3, CRE, AP2, C/EBP were found in similar proportions in 23 isolates from both benign and malignant samples, rendering the distribution of these mutations not significant among malignant samples.
Translation of the analgesic efficacy of investigational neurotherapeutics from pre-clinical pain models into clinical trial phases is associated with a high risk of failure. Application of human pain biomarkers in early stages of clinical trials can potentially enhance the rate of successful translation, which would eventually reduce both length and costs of drug development after the pre-clinical stage. Human pain biomarkers are based on the standardized activation of pain pathways followed by the assessment of ongoing and paroxysmal pain, plus evoked responses which can be applied to healthy individuals and patients prior to and after pharmacological interventions. This review discusses the rationality and feasibility of advanced human pain biomarkers in early phases of drug development for pain management which is still an unmet medical need.
In tetrapods, posterior Hoxd genes (from groups 10 to 13) are necessary to properly pattern the developing autopods, including the number and identities of digits. Their coordinated expression is achieved by sharing a global control region (GCR), which was isolated and localized 200 kb 5' (centromeric) of the gene cluster. However, in transgenic assays, the GCR was unable to fully recapitulate all aspects of the endogenous Hoxd expression patterns during distal limb development. In this paper, we further analyze the regulatory potential of this locus and report the characterization of Prox, a second enhancer element that contributes to the transcriptional activity of posterior Hoxd genes in developing distal limb buds. We show that the GCR and Prox elements complement each other and work in combination to correctly establish the late phase of Hoxd genes expression. Based on DNA sequence conservation and transgenic assays, we discuss the functions of these regulatory regions as well as a potential evolutionary scheme accounting for their emergence along with the evolution of tetrapod limbs.
Platinum based drugs are the cornerstone of chemotherapy for ovarian cancer, however the development of chemoresistance hinders its success. IL-8 is involved in regulating several pro-survival pathways in cancer. We studied the expression of IL-8 and IL-8 receptors in platinum sensitive and resistant cell lines. Using qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry, both platinum sensitive (PEA1, PEO14) and resistant (PEA2, PEO23) show increased expression of IL-8 and IL-8 receptors. IL-8RA shows nuclear and cytoplasmic expression, whilst IL-8RB is present solely in the cytoplasm. Knockdown of IL-8 increased sensitivity to cisplatin in platinum sensitive and reversed platinum resistance in resistant cell lines, decreased the expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and decreased inhibitory phosphorylation of pro-apoptotic Bad. IL-8 receptor antagonist treatment also enhanced platinum sensitivity. Nuclear localisation of IL-8RA was only detected in platinum resistant tumours. Inhibition of IL-8 signalling can enhance response in platinum sensitive and resistant disease. Nuclear IL-8RA may have potential as a biomarker of resistant disease.
UDP-galactose 4'-epimerase (GALE) catalyzes the final step of the highly conserved Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism. Loss of GALE in humans results in a variant form of the metabolic disorder, galactosemia. Loss of GALE in yeast results in galactose-dependent growth arrest. Although the role of GALE in galactose metabolism has been recognized for decades, the precise relationship between GALE activity and galactose sensitivity has remained unclear. Here we have explored this relationship by asking the following. 1) Is GALE rate-limiting for galactose metabolism in yeast? 2) What is the relationship between GALE activity and galactose-dependent growth arrest in yeast? 3) What is the relationship between GALE activity and the abnormal accumulation of galactose metabolites in yeast? To answer these questions we engineered a strain of yeast in which GALE was doxycycline-repressible and studied these cells under conditions of intermediate GALE expression. Our results demonstrated a smooth linear relationship between galactose metabolism and GALE activity over a range from 0 to approximately 5% but a steep threshold relationship between growth rate in galactose and GALE activity over the same range. The relationship between abnormal accumulation of metabolites and GALE activity was also linear over the range from 0 to approximately 5%, suggesting that if the abnormal accumulation of metabolites underlies galactose-dependent growth-arrest in GALE-impaired yeast, either the impact of individual metabolites must be synergistic and/or the threshold of sensitivity must be very steep. Together these data reveal important points of similarity and contrast between the roles of GALE and galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase in galactose metabolism in yeast and provide a framework for future studies in mammalian systems.
In proteins with buried active sites, understanding how ligands migrate through the tunnels that connect the exterior of the protein to the active site can shed light on substrate specificity and enzyme function. A growing body of evidence highlights the importance of protein flexibility in the binding site on ligand binding; however, the influence of protein flexibility throughout the body of the protein during ligand entry and egress is much less characterized. We have developed a novel tunnel prediction and evaluation method named IterTunnel, which includes the influence of ligand-induced protein flexibility, guarantees ligand egress, and provides detailed free energy information as the ligand proceeds along the egress route. IterTunnel combines geometric tunnel prediction with steered molecular dynamics in an iterative process to identify tunnels that open as a result of ligand migration and calculates the potential of mean force of ligand egress through a given tunnel. Applying this new method to cytochrome P450 2B6, we demonstrate the influence of protein flexibility on the shape and accessibility of tunnels. More importantly, we demonstrate that the ligand itself, while traversing through a tunnel, can reshape tunnels due to its interaction with the protein. This process results in the exposure of new tunnels and the closure of preexisting tunnels as the ligand migrates from the active site.
TLRs, particularly TLR2 and TLR4, play primary roles in inflammatory responses triggered by Aspergillus fumigatus and lead to the activation of signaling pathways that initiate host defense responses. We previously demonstrated that LPS, a ligand of TLR4, can induce tolerance of A. fumigatus hyphae in telomerase-immortalized human stroma fibroblasts (THSFs). In the present study we investigated the role of TLR4, TLR2 and their downstream signaling pathways in this activity. The THSFs were pretreated with low-dose LPS and then exposed to A. fumigatus hyphae. It was demonstrated that enhanced expression of TLR4, but not of TLR2, was associated with LPS pretreatment. Inhibition of TLR4 with monoclonal Ab prevented reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in LPS-pretreated THSFs. Pretreatment of THSFs with low-dose LPS caused an impaired response of the MyD88-dependent classical and MAPK signaling pathway upon subsequent A. fumigatus challenge, while expression of signaling molecules in the MyD88-independent Toll-IL-1 receptor domain-containing adaptor inducing IFN-beta pathway was increased in THSFs pretreated with LPS. These results indicated that TLR4 mediates attenuated cytokine production induced by LPS pretreatment, and regulation of MyD88-dependent and MyD88-independent pathways may contribute to the development of A. fumigatus hyphae tolerance in LPS-pretreated THSFs.
Herpetic whitlow is one of the herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections, and is known as an occupational disease. In Japan, however, there have been only a few reports of this disease. Recently, we experienced three cases of herpetic whitlow in health care workers. They presented painful vesicles on the right ring finger, the left thumb and the left index finger, respectively. All of them were considered to have been infected by HSV when they were engaged in mouth care of inpatients. We reviewed these three cases from the aspect of occupational medicine, and propose the following three points for preventing this serious nosocominal infection to health care workers: 1) re-education and enlightenment for the workers regarding hazardous behavior of HSV, 2) keeping the hands and fingers free from skin impairments, and 3) early diagnosis and treatment for herpetic whitlow of health care professionals to prevent further nosocominal infection.
Heterozygote GBA (glucosylceramidase beta) mutations increase the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). Data based on the measured frequencies of GBA mutated alleles in the healthy population suggest that severe GBA mutations are associated with even higher risk for PD. These data, however, are prone to methodological biases resulting from the rarity of severe mutations and from ethnic-dependent differences in allele frequencies. To overcome these biases, we traced 13 Gaucher disease (GD) patients who were compound heterozygotes for one mild (N370S) and one severe GBA mutation and who reported a parent with PD. We determined the GBA mutation status of all parents and examined them whenever possible. While 50% of the parents carried a mild GBA mutation, we hypothesized that PD cases would be more likely to carry a severe mutation. We found that 10/13 PD parents had a severe mutation and only 3/10 carried a mild mutation (binomial test P<0.05). Using an unbiased methodology, we show that carriers of severe GBA mutations are at higher risk for PD relative to carriers of the mild mutations.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Chiliadenus iphionoides (Boiss. & Blanche) Brullo (Asteraceae), a small aromatic shrub found throughout Israel, is used traditionally in the treatment of diabetes mellitus. In this study, Chiliadenus iphionoides anti-diabetic activity was characterized using cellular and animal models. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Pancreatic beta cells, adipocytes, and skeletal myotubes were treated with an ethanolic extract of Chiliadenus iphionoides to study the extract's effects on insulin secretion and glucose uptake. The sand rat (Psammomys obesus) was used to study Chiliadenus iphionoides acute and long term effects in vivo. An oral starch tolerance test was performed as well as a 30 day feeding study. RESULTS: Chiliadenus iphionoides extract increased insulin secretion in beta cells as well as glucose uptake in adipocytes and skeletal myotubes. The extract also displayed hypoglycemic activity in the diabetic sand rat. CONCLUSIONS: Chiliadenus iphionoides exhibits considerable anti-diabetic activity, although the mechanism of action remains to be determined.
This paper reports 20 new microsatellite loci that are highly polymorphic in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). We screened known human microsatellite loci to identify markers that are polymorphic in rhesus macaques, and then selected specific loci that show substantial levels of heterozygosity and robust, reliable amplification. The 20 loci reported here were chosen to include one highly informative microsatellite from each rhesus monkey autosomal chromosome. Fourteen of the 20 polymorphisms are tetranucleotide repeats, and all can be analyzed using standard PCR and electrophoresis procedures. These new rhesus markers have an average of 15.5 alleles per locus and average heterozygosity of 0.83. This panel of DNA polymorphisms will be useful for a variety of different genetic analyses, including pedigree testing, paternity analysis, and population genetic studies. Many of these loci are also likely to be informative in other closely related Old World monkey species.
BACKGROUND: Mechanistic data suggest that different types of fatty acids play a role in carcinogenesis and that antioxidants may modulate this relationship but epidemiologic evidence is lacking. Our aim was to investigate the association between plasma saturated, monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids (SFAs, MUFAs and PUFAs) and overall and breast cancer risk and to evaluate the potential modulatory effect of an antioxidant supplementation on these relationships. METHODS: A nested case-control study included all first incident cancer cases diagnosed in the SU.VI.MAX study between 1994 and 2002 (n=250 cases, one matched control/case). Participants to the SU.VI.MAX randomized controlled trial received either vitamin/mineral antioxidants or placebo during this intervention period. Baseline fatty acid composition of plasma total lipids was measured by gas chromatography. Conditional logistic regression was performed overall and stratified by intervention group. RESULTS: Dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (Ptrend=0.002), the dihomo-gamma-linolenic/linoleic acids ratio (Ptrend=0.001), mead acid (Ptrend=0.0004), and palmitoleic acid (Ptrend=0.02) were inversely associated with overall cancer risk. The arachidonic/dihomo-gamma-linolenic acids ratio (Ptrend=0.02) and linoleic acid (Ptrend=0.02) were directly associated with overall cancer risk. Similar results were observed for breast cancer specifically. In stratified analyses, associations were only observed in the placebo group. Notably, total PUFAs were directly associated with overall (Ptrend=0.02) and breast cancer risk in the placebo group only. CONCLUSION: Specific SFAs, MUFAs and PUFAs were prospectively differentially associated with cancer risk. In addition, this study suggests that antioxidants may modulate these associations by counteracting the potential effects of these fatty acids on carcinogenesis.
Cdc14 family phosphatases are highly conserved regulators of cell-cycle progression. Two of the best studied members of this family are budding yeast Cdc14p and its fission yeast homolog Clp1p/Flp1p. The function of both Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc14p and Schizosaccharomyces pombe Clp1p/Flp1p are controlled in part by their regulated sequestration and release from the nucleolus. In the budding yeast S. cerevisiae a set of proteins collectively termed the FEAR network promote nucleolar and telomeric DNA segregation by triggering the release of the conserved Cdc14 phosphatase from the nucleolus. Here we show that FEAR homologs in S. pombe do not promote release of the Cdc14 homolog Clp1p/Flp1p from the nucleolus, and that Clp1p/Flp1p is not required for nucleolar and telomeric DNA segregation suggesting that this aspect of Cdc14 regulation and function may not be universally conserved.
Infections with cardiotrophic viruses and immune-mediated responses against the heart have been suggested to play a dominant role in the pathogenesis of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Furthermore, immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs) may result in DCM. It has not previously been assessed whether DCM patients with and without an IMID have different prevalences and quantities of cardiotrophic viruses in the heart. Therefore, we compared the profiles of cardiotrophic viruses in heart tissue of DCM patients with and without an IMID. Serum and myocardial tissue samples were obtained from 159 consecutive patients with DCM and 20 controls. Patients were subdivided into three groups, the first two based on the presence (n = 34) or absence (n = 125) of an IMID and the third being a control group. The parvovirus B19 virus genome was detected in equal quantities in the non-IMID DCM patients (100/125) and the control group (15/20) but in lower quantities in the IMID patients (21/34, P = 0.02). Both the non-IMID and IMID DCM patients demonstrated increased myocardial inflammation compared to controls: 12.5 +/- 1.8 and 14.0 +/- 3.2 CD45-positive inflammatory cells, respectively, versus 5.1 +/- 0.7 for the controls (P < 0.05 for both). Importantly, significantly higher parvovirus B19 copy numbers could be amplified in non-IMID than in IMID patients (561 +/- 97 versus 191 +/- 92 copies/mug DNA, P < 0.001) and control subjects (103 +/- 47 copies/mug DNA, P < 0.001). The present study shows decreased parvovirus B19 prevalence and copy numbers in hearts of DCM patients with an IMID compared to those without an IMID. These findings may suggest that DCM patients with an IMID have a different pathophysiologic mechanism from that which is present in the virus-induced form of DCM.
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (s.l.) is maintained in nature by complex zoonotic transmission cycles, involving a large variety of vertebrates as hosts and hard ticks of the genus Ixodes as vectors. Recent studies suggest that the genospecies of B. burgdorferi s.l. and sometimes their subtypes are propagated by different spectra of hosts, mainly birds and rodents. In order to test the concept of host-association, we analysed the relationships between Borrelia genospecies, rodent hosts and I. ricinus ticks in an endemic focus of Lyme borreliosis in western Slovakia. Rodents and questing ticks were collected at a forested low land locality near Bratislava. Tick infestation levels on rodents were determined, and spirochaete infections in ticks and in ear punch biopsies were analysed by PCR followed by genotyping. Mice were more heavily infested with ticks than bank voles, and a higher proportion of mice was infected with spirochactes than voles. However, the infectivity of soles was much higher than that of mice. The vast majority of infections detected in the skin and in ticks feeding on the rodents represented B. afzelii. In contrast, more than half of all infections in questing ticks collected in the same region of Slovakia were identified as B. valaisiana and B. garinii. In conclusion, whilst the study reveals that mice and voles play different quantitative roles in the ecology of Lyme borreliosis, it demonstrates that B. afzelii is specifically maintained by European rodents, validating the concept of host-association of B. burgdorferi s.l.
The use of synthetic chemical moieties to design fully functional analogues of transcription factors will give rise to novel molecular tools for targeted gene regulation. Here we demonstrate that a synthetic molecule based on a nonpeptidic DNA-binding domain can be engineered to function as a highly potent transcription factor in vitro and in an intracellular context. The structure of this artificial transcription factor (ATF) consists of three parts: (i) triple-helix-forming oligonucleotide as a DNA-binding domain; (ii) composite linker moiety; and (iii) short synthetic peptide. The direct comparison of ATFs with natural transcription factors in in vitro assays reveals the ability of ATFs to initiate RNA transcription at the correct initiation site. In addition, the transcriptional activation potency of ATFs in vitro matches or exceeds the potency of GAL4-VP16, one of the strongest natural transcriptional activators. This remarkable biological activity is explained as a function of ATF's chemical structure. We also demonstrate for the first time that ATFs possess substantial ability to activate transcription in tissue culture cells, thus opening a prospect for practical applications in basic and applied research. The specific molecular design employed in the synthesis of ATFs may lead to the development of novel gene-targeting pharmaceuticals for treatment of fatal and chronic diseases.
Odorant receptors (ORs) control several aspects of cell fate in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), including singular gene choice and axonal identity. The mechanisms of OR-induced axon guidance have been suggested to principally rely on G-protein signalling. Here, we report that for a subset of OSNs, deleting G proteins or altering their levels of signalling does not affect axonal identity. Signalling-deficient ORs or surrogate receptors that are unable to couple to Gs/Golf still provide axons with distinct identities and the anterior-posterior targeting of axons does not correlate with the levels of cAMP produced by genetic modifications. In addition, we refine the models of negative feedback by showing that ectopic ORs can be robustly expressed without suppressing endogenous gene choice. In conclusion, our results uncover a new feature of ORs, showing that they can instruct axonal identity and regulate olfactory map formation independent of canonical G-protein signalling and cAMP production.
The legume lectins from the subtribe Diocleinae, often referred to as concanavalin A-like lectins, are a typical example of highly similar proteins that show distinct biological activities. The pH-dependent oligomerization that some of these lectins undergo and the relative position of amino acids within the carbohydrate-binding site are factors that have been reported to contribute to these differences in the activities of Diocleinae lectins. In the present work, we determined the amino acid sequence and the crystal structure of the lectin of Dioclea rostrata seeds (DRL), with the aim of investigating the structural bases of the different behavior displayed by this lectin in comparison to other Diocleinae lectins and determining the reason for the distinct pH-dependent dimer-tetramer equilibrium. In addition, we discovered a novel multimeric arrangement for this lectin.
BACKGROUND: Little is known regarding the phenotype of afferents that innervate the uterine cervix. Chronic estrogen sensitizes uterine cervical afferents to mechanical distension, but whether this reflects changes in afferent neurotransmitter or excitatory ion channel expression is unknown. The authors used immunocytochemistry to characterize uterine cervical afferents and the effects of estrogen on them. METHODS: Fluorogold was injected into the uterine cervix of intact rats (n = 7) and those with ovariectomy alone (n = 9) or with estrogen supplementation (n = 8). Bilateral dorsal root ganglia at T12-L2 were removed and immunostained for transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1), P2X3 receptor, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and somatostatin. The proportion of fluorogold-traced dorsal root ganglion neurons expressing each of these markers was compared with untraced neurons. RESULTS: Most fluorogold-traced cells were found at L1 (> 55%) and were of small diameter (24 microm). TRPV1 expression was similar between traced and untraced cells, except the estrogen treatment increased TRPV1 expression in traced cells. Calcitonin gene-related peptide expression was greater in traced than in untraced cells, with no effect of experimental treatment. No traced cells expressed the P2X3 receptor or somatostatin, although each of these was present in untraced cells. CONCLUSION: Uterine cervical afferents in the hypogastric nerve express TRPV1, an important nociceptive channel, which may play a role in estrogen-induced sensitization of cervical afferents. High expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide suggests a sensory and efferent role for this peptide. In contrast to other viscera, these afferents do not express somatostatin or P2X3 receptor, indicating a unique phenotype of these C fibers.
Ectophosphatases are surface membrane-bound proteins whose active sites face the extracellular medium. These enzymes have been reported in several microorganisms including a large number of medically relevant fungal species. An effective technique for identifying ectophosphatases is performing phosphatase activity assays using living intact cells. Biochemical characterization of these activities has shown their differential modulation by classical phosphatase inhibitors, divalent metals and pH range. The physiological roles of ectophosphatases are not well established; however, it has been suggested that these enzymes play important roles in nutrition, proliferation, differentiation, adhesion, virulence and infection. Adhesion to host cells is the first step in establishing a fungal infection and ectophosphatases may be one of the first parasite proteins that come into contact with the host cells. Several results indicate that ectophosphatase activities increase the capacity of fungi to adhere to the host cells. In this context, the present review provides an overview of recent discoveries related to the occurrence and possible roles of ectophosphatase activities in fungal cells.
The SK-v cell line, established from a precancerous lesion (a vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia), contains 10 to 20 copies of the human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) genome, and was previously shown to derive from a clone of cells present in the patient's lesions. By in situ hybridization the integrated HPV16 DNA sequences were localized to a single site in chromosome region 12q14-q15. The localization of viral sequences to a single nonrearranged chromosome 12 suggests that integration occurred at this site in the patient's premalignant lesions. The INT1 and GLI protooncogenes are located in this chromosomal region. No detectable modification of the structure and expression of these genes was observed by blot hybridization experiments.
From June to November 1994 (period 1) and from February to June 1995 (period 2), multiresistant Acinetobacter baumannii strains were isolated in intensive care units and surgical wards of the Amiens Teaching Hospital Center (Amiens, France). Eighteen isolates were obtained from 17 (1%) of 1,706 patients admitted during both of these periods, giving an incidence rate of nosocomial infection per 1,000 patient days of 0.6%. Of 17 infected patients, 9 had pneumonia, 3 had urinary tract infection, 2 had peritonitis, 1 had septicemia, 1 had a catheter infection, and 1 had pneumonia and urinary tract infection. According to typing results, four antibiotic resistance profiles were detected: a, b, c, and d; seven ribotypes were distinguished by both restriction enzymes EcoRI and SalI (A, B, C, D, E, F, and G). By combining antibiotyping and ribotyping, we obtained eight groups of strains (groups I to VIII). Group I contained five strains (strains 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9) which had antibiogram pattern a and ribopattern A and constituted the outbreak strains. The strains of group II (strains 3, 10, 11, 13, and 14) were closely related to outbreak strain A and appeared to be variants of ribotype A (A2 [strain 3]; A4 [strain 10]; A5 [strains 11, 13, and 14]). Groups III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII included strains which were epidemiologically unrelated to the strains of group I and were considered nonoutbreak strains.
OBJECTIVE: To compare basal-like breast carcinoma (BLBC) gene expression profiles to normal mammary epithelium in order to determine the characteristic gene expression patterns associated with the tumor. STUDY DESIGN: The gene expression profiles of 12 cases of BLBC were analyzed using a human mRNA genome expression profiling chip containing 48,804 probes in an attempt to characterize molecular mechanism involved in the carcinogenesis of BLBC. RESULTS: The identified 99 genes were upregulated more than fourfold fold-change (FC) value over their levels in normal mammary ductal epithelial cells, and 43 genes were downregulated to less than fivefold FC value compared to normal epithelial cells. Verification of selected genes by semiquantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was performed to confirm the expression data obtained by microarray analysis. Most of the abnormal expressed genes were related to DNA binding, transcription and its factor, cell receptors, cell signals and transmitted proteins, metabolism-related proteins, and protein synthesis-related genes. CONCLUSION: The difference of gene expression profiles might be of benefit for selecting the relative genes of the basal-like carcinoma as the therapy target and to further the understanding of the development of BLBC.
A rare variant of mycosis fungoides (MF) characterized by prominent involvement of the eccrine glands with syringometaplasia has been reported in the past as "syringolymphoid hyperplasia with alopecia," "syringotropic cutaneous T-cell lymphoma," "adnexotropic T-cell lymphoma," or "syringotropic MF." The clinicopathologic features of this variant are not well understood, and only a few case reports or small series have been published to date. We reviewed the clinicopathologic features of 14 patients with syringotropic MF (male:female=10:4; median age, 59 years; mean age, 57.8; age range, 33 to 83 y). Six patients had variably large, solitary patches or plaques, located on the thigh (n=3), arm, trunk, or eyebrow (1 each). The other 8 patients had multiple, mostly generalized lesions. A history of MF was known in 4 of these 8 patients. With the exception of 1 biopsy specimen that was too superficial and did include the eccrine secretory coils but not the eccrine glands, all cases showed prominent involvement of the eccrine glands. Variable degrees of syringometaplasia ranging from small to large epithelial complexes were present in all specimens. The eccrine glands and syringometaplastic structures were surrounded by dense lymphoid infiltrates with prominent epitheliotropism. Concomitant involvement of the epidermis and of the hair follicles was observed in 13 and 8 biopsies, respectively. This is the largest series of syringotropic MF, showing that this is a rare variant of the disease with peculiar clinicopathologic features. Dermatologists and dermatopathologists should be aware of this rare variant of MF to avoid delayed diagnosis and treatment.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae high-affinity copper transporter, Ctr1p, mediates cellular uptake of Cu(I). We report that when copper (50 microm CuSO(4)) is added to the growth medium of copper-starved cells, Ctr1p is rapidly internalized by endocytosis, delivered to the lumen of the lysosome-like vacuole and slowly degraded by vacuolar proteases. Through analysis of the trafficking and degradation of Ctr1p mutants, two lysine residues in the C-terminal cytoplasmic tail of Ctr1p, Lys340 and Lys345, were found to be critical for copper-dependent endocytosis and degradation. In response to copper addition, Ctr1p was found to be ubiquitylated and a mutation in the Rsp5 ubiquitin ligase largely abolished ubiquitylation, endocytosis and degradation. In a strain lacking the Rsp5p accessory factors Bul1p and Bul2p, endocytosis and degradation of Ctr1p-green fluorescent protein were substantially diminished. Surprisingly, a Ctr1p mutant that lacks Lys340 and Lys345 was still ubiquitylated in a copper-dependent manner, indicating that ubiquitylation of Ctr1p on other sites is insufficient to drive copper-dependent endocytosis and degradation. This study demonstrates that copper regulates turnover of Ctr1p by stimulating Rsp5p-dependent endocytosis and degradation of Ctr1p in the vacuole.
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is a form of chronic kidney disease that causes 3.6% of end stage renal disease cases. While the cause of this disease is multifactoral, the Human Genome Project has identified some specific chromosome sites linked to this disease process. Treatment for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis may include corticosteroids, managing hypertension, and controlling proteinuria. This article discusses the pathophysiology of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, treatments, and resources for patient and professional education.
Histamine that belongs to one of the most important mediators involved in the regulation of the body's vital functions plays a great role in the pathogenesis of different diseases. Histamine is released during inflammatory and allergic reactions, anaphylactic and anaphylactoid shock, pseudoallergic reactions, and others. Acting through histamine receptors, it leads to increased intracellular concentration of cyclic guanosine monophosphate, enhanced chemotaxis of eosinophils and neutrophils, production of prostaglandins and thromboxane B, suppressed synthesis of lymphokines, etc. and causes contraction of smooth muscles of particularly the bronchi and intestine, dilation of vessels and their increased permeability, mucus hypersecretion in the upper airways, lower blood pressure, angioedema and itch, etc. In this connection, antihistamines that block histamine-induced reactions in various ways: by inhibiting its biosynthesis, enhancing its neutralization, blocking the access to receptors, and suppressing the release from mast cells, occupy a prominent place in clinical practice. The review covers the classification, main mechanisms of pharmacological action, and indications for the use of antihistamines that not only have the well-known antihistamine properties, but have also a broad spectrum of anti-inflammatory activity. There are data on the benefits of a group of antihistamines, the quinuclidine derivatives (quifenadine, sequifenadine) that were designed by Academician M.D. Mashkovsky and are one of the first examples of designing new classes of multifunctional non-sedating antihistamines, which combines a high selective activity to block histamine type 1 receptors and an ability to block serotonin and to break down histamine directly in tissues.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been implicated in mitogenesis and oncogenesis in the gastrointestinal tract. To determine the role of EGF in oesophageal disease, its quantity and distribution in the oesophageal mucosa of control subjects and patients with oesophageal disease were studied. Oesophageal biopsy specimens, taken 20-40 cm from the incisors in 72 patients, were graded histologically and adjacent specimens were taken for immunohistochemical analysis of the distribution of EGF. In patients with Barrett's columnar lined oesophagus, specimens were also taken from the gastric cardia for comparison. Twenty two biopsy specimens showed oesophagitis, 20 Barrett's mucosa, and 30 were histologically normal. EGF was found in the capillary endothelium of the normal oesophageal papillae and basal mucosa. Significantly more EGF positive papillae were found in the normal mucosa (81%) than in the inflamed mucosa (42%) (p < 0.001). The 20 patients with Barrett's mucosa showed abnormal expression of EGF in 25% of the isthmus and superficial epithelial cells. This study has shown that EGF is found only in the endothelial cells of the capillaries of the normal oesophageal mucosa and that the peptide is detectable significantly less frequently than normal in the inflamed oesophageal mucosa. EGF is also abnormally present, in large quantities, in the cytoplasm of the epithelial cells of Barrett's mucosa compared with gastric mucosa.
Replication competent oncolytic viruses, like other biological products, are at risk from contamination by bacteria, fungi, mycoplasma and viruses that must be eliminated from the final product. This article reviews the regulatory guidance for the manufacture and testing for oncolytic virus products. A testing strategy covering the testing of cell lines, virus banks, virus harvests and purified product is described.
MOTIVATION: High-density single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping arrays are efficient and cost effective platforms for the detection of copy number variation (CNV). To ensure accuracy in probe synthesis and to minimize production costs, short oligonucleotide probe sequences are used. The use of short probe sequences limits the specificity of binding targets in the human genome. The specificity of these short probeset sequences has yet to be fully analysed against a normal reference human genome. Sequence similarity can artificially elevate or suppress copy number measurements, and hence reduce the reliability of affected probe readings. For the purpose of detecting narrow CNVs reliably down to the width of a single probeset, sequence similarity is an important issue that needs to be addressed. RESULTS: We surveyed the Affymetrix Human Mapping SNP arrays for probeset sequence similarity against the reference human genome. Utilizing sequence similarity results, we identified a collection of fine-scaled putative CNVs between gender from autosomal probesets whose sequence matches various loci on the sex chromosomes. To detect these variations, we utilized our statistical approach, Detecting REcurrent Copy number change using rank-order Statistics (DRECS), and showed that its performance was superior and more stable than the t-test in detecting CNVs. Through the application of DRECS on the HapMap population datasets with multi-matching probesets filtered, we identified biologically relevant SNPs in aberrant regions across populations with known association to physical traits, such as height, covered by the span of a single probe. This provided empirical confirmation of the existence of naturally occurring narrow CNVs as well as the sensitivity of the Affymetrix SNP array technology in detecting them. AVAILABILITY: The MATLAB implementation of DRECS is available at http://ww2.cs.mu.oz.au/ approximately gwong/DRECS/index.html.
Our previous work demonstrated that the sterol response element binding proteins (SREBP)-1 and SREBP-2, which are the key regulators of storage lipid and cholesterol metabolism respectively, are highly expressed in Schwann cells of adult peripheral nerves. In order to evaluate the role of Schwann cell SREBPs in myelination and functioning of peripheral nerves we have determined their expression during development, after fasting and refeeding, and in a rodent model of diabetes. Our results show that SREBP-1c and SREBP-2, unlike SREBP-1a, are the major forms of SREBPs present in peripheral nerves. The expression profile of SREBP-2 follows the expression of genes involved in cholesterol biosynthesis, while SREBP-1c is co-expressed with genes involved in storage lipid metabolism. In addition, the expression of SREBP-1c in the endoneurial compartment of peripheral nerves depends on nutritional status and is disturbed in type 1 diabetes. In line with this, insulin elevates the expression of SREBP-1c in primary cultured Schwann cells by activating the SREBP-1c promoter. Taken together, these findings reveal that SREBP-1c expression in Schwann cells responds to metabolic stimuli including insulin and that this response is affected in type 1 diabetes mellitus. This suggests that disturbed SREBP-1c regulated lipid metabolism may contribute to the pathophysiology of diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
The stereospecificity of hydride abstraction from NADPH and the conformation of the nicotinamide ring around the glycosidic bond have been determined for the flavoprotein NADPH-cytochrome P-450 oxidoreductase (P-450R). The A-side (pro-R) hydrogen is abstracted from NADPH, and the nicotinamide ring is in the anti conformation. These results are consistent with the apparently strong correlation between A-side stereospecificity and anti conformation and between B-side stereospecificity and syn conformation [You, K. (1985) CRC Crit. Rev. Biochem. 17, 313]. This correlation reveals how the flavin and nicotinamide rings are oriented relative to each other. In P-450R, the flavin is then "on top of" (on the exo side of) the nicotinamide ring. In another flavoprotein dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase, which is a B-side/anti enzyme [Pai, E. F., & Schulz, G. E. (1983) J. Biol. Chem. 258, 1752], the flavin is "underneath" (on the endo side of) the nicotinamide ring. We argue that all enzymes that are evolutionarily related to these two flavoproteins should have their respective overall configurations. The overall configuration is defined by the following five properties: (1) relative orientation of the isoalloxazine and nicotinamide rings, (2) stereospecificity of hydride transfer to/from the nicotinamide ring, (3) conformation of the nicotinamide ring around the glycosidic bond, (4) stereospecificity of hydride transfer to/from the flavin, and (5) conformation of the flavin around its N5-N10 axis. There are only eight possible overall configurations, and a knowledge of only three of the five properties is needed to determine which one is present (as long as the combination of properties is not 1, 2, 3 or 1, 4, 5).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The uniformly lethal development of mammary tumors in polyomavirus-infected adult female nude mice was prevented by adoptive cell transfer of polyomavirus-immune splenocytes or peritoneal cells. Transferred immune cells also lowered the growth rate of emerging tumors. The induction of other relatively less frequent tumors of the skin and bone was decreased as well. Using in situ hybridization of whole-body sections as well as hybridization of nucleic acids from the mammary glands, we show for the first time that transferred immune cells, but not normal cells, virtually eliminated virus signal in the whole mouse and in the mammary glands. Since infected and tumorous mammary glands produce very little infectious virus, it appears that a major mechanism mediating the prevention of polyomavirus oncogenesis involves the immunological elimination of nonproductively and persistently infected cells.
Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have implicated a range of genes from discrete biological pathways in the aetiology of autism. However, despite the strong influence of genetic factors, association studies have yet to identify statistically robust, replicated major effect genes or SNPs. We apply the principle of the SNP ratio test methodology described by O'Dushlaine et al to over 2100 families from the Autism Genome Project (AGP). Using a two-stage design we examine association enrichment in 5955 unique gene-ontology classifications across four groupings based on two phenotypic and two ancestral classifications. Based on estimates from simulation we identify excess of association enrichment across all analyses. We observe enrichment in association for sets of genes involved in diverse biological processes, including pyruvate metabolism, transcription factor activation, cell-signalling and cell-cycle regulation. Both genes and processes that show enrichment have previously been examined in autistic disorders and offer biologically plausibility to these findings.
Transcription of coregulated genes occurs in the context of long-range chromosomal contacts that form multigene complexes. Such contacts and transcription are lost in knockout studies of transcription factors and structural chromatin proteins. To ask whether chromosomal contacts are required for cotranscription in multigene complexes, we devised a strategy using TALENs to cleave and disrupt gene loops in a well-characterized multigene complex. Monitoring this disruption using RNA FISH and immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that perturbing the site of contact had a direct effect on transcription of other interacting genes. Unexpectedly, this effect on cotranscription was hierarchical, with dominant and subordinate members of the multigene complex engaged in both intra- and interchromosomal contact. This observation reveals the profound influence of these chromosomal contacts on the transcription of coregulated genes in a multigene complex.
Instability of aerobic granular sludge (AGS), which is mainly caused by filamentous outgrowth, is a bottleneck in applying this technology to treat wastewater. In order to reduce the effect of filamentous outgrowth on settlement ability of AGS, the role of the distribution of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) in settlement ability was investigated in this study. Chemical oxygen demand (COD) of influent increased gradually from 1000 mg L(-1) to 2000 mg L(-1) to 4000 mg L(-1) as organic loading rate (OLR) changed from 2 to 4 to 8 kg COD m(-3) d(-1) in the synthetic influent. The relationship between settlement ability and EPS was investigated. The sharp increase in loosely bound EPS (LB-EPS) content reduced the settlement ability, whereas the highest content of tightly bound EPS (TB-EPS) was observed in the sludge with best settlement ability. The TB-EPS plays an important role in maintaining the matrix structure of AGS. Abundance of LB-EPS did not favour the settlement ability of AGS. These results would provide useful information for improvement of stability of AGS.
We analyzed a global collection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains using 212 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers. SNP nucleotide diversity was high (average across all SNPs, 0.19), and 96% of the SNP locus pairs were in complete linkage disequilibrium. Cluster analyses identified six deeply branching, phylogenetically distinct SNP cluster groups (SCGs) and five subgroups. The SCGs were strongly associated with the geographical origin of the M. tuberculosis samples and the birthplace of the human hosts. The most ancestral cluster (SCG-1) predominated in patients from the Indian subcontinent, while SCG-1 and another ancestral cluster (SCG-2) predominated in patients from East Asia, suggesting that M. tuberculosis first arose in the Indian subcontinent and spread worldwide through East Asia. Restricted SCG diversity and the prevalence of less ancestral SCGs in indigenous populations in Uganda and Mexico suggested a more recent introduction of M. tuberculosis into these regions. The East African Indian and Beijing spoligotypes were concordant with SCG-1 and SCG-2, respectively; X and Central Asian spoligotypes were also associated with one SCG or subgroup combination. Other clades had less consistent associations with SCGs. Mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit (MIRU) analysis provided less robust phylogenetic information, and only 6 of the 12 MIRU microsatellite loci were highly differentiated between SCGs as measured by GST. Finally, an algorithm was devised to identify two minimal sets of either 45 or 6 SNPs that could be used in future investigations to enable global collaborations for studies on evolution, strain differentiation, and biological differences of M. tuberculosis.
We studied marginal zone B-cell lymphomas of the gastrointestinal tract including seven small cell lymphomas, eight large cell areas of composite lymphomas and 13 large cell variants using SNP array profiling. We found an increase of genomic complexity with lymphoma progression from small to large cytology, and identified gains of prominent (proto) oncogenes such as REL, BCL11A, ETS1, PTPN1, PTEN and KRAS which were found exclusively in the large cell variants. Copy numbers of ADAM3A, SCAPER and SIRPB1 were varying between the three different modes of presentation, hence suggestive for aberrations associated with progression from small to large cell lymphoma. The number of aberrations was slightly higher in the large cell part of composite lymphomas than in large cell lymphomas, suggesting that clonal selection takes place and that composite lymphomas are in a transition state. To further investigate this, we comparatively analyzed samples of two morphologically different regions of the same small cell tumor with a BIRC3-MALT1 translocation, as well as material acquired at two different time points from one composite lymphoma. We found genomic heterogeneity in both cases, supporting the theory of competing subclones in the evolution and progression of extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma.
Chorioamnion infection is associated with histologic chorioamnionitis and prematurity, but the specific chorioamnion microorganisms associated with histologic chorioamnionitis, prematurity, and poor neonatal outcome have not been identified. Bacteria were recovered from the chorioamnion cultures of 32% of 112 placentas delivered at less than or equal to 34 weeks' gestation and from 19% of 156 placentas delivered at greater than 34 weeks' gestation (odds ratio 2.1; 95% confidence interval 1.1 to 3.8). Chorioamnion bacteria most highly related to both prematurity and histologic chorioamnionitis were group B Streptococcus and Fusobacterium species. Chorioamnion infection with Peptostreptococcus was significantly related only to preterm delivery, and infection with Escherichia coli, Bacteroides, and Ureaplasma were significantly related to histologic chorioamnionitis. Among preterm infants, isolation of bacteria from the chorioamnion was related to an increased risk of neonatal death (rate ratio 3.8; 95% confidence interval 1.4 to 11.6). Bacterial infection of the chorioamnion is related to preterm birth, histologic chorioamnionitis, and neonatal death.
In recent years, nurse education in the United Kingdom has undergone some major organisational changes, not least the move into higher education institutions. Concurrently, developments in the professionalisation of nursing through the UKCC's post registration education and practice reforms have led to nurses being required to identify their own educational needs. Having identified their own needs, nurses are then faced with a plethora of post registration education programmes which are aimed to facilitate their learning and, directly or indirectly, improve patient care. However, do these programmes positively influence nursing practice and the standard of care delivered? This paper reviews the literature regarding the effects that continuing professional education (CPE) programmes have upon the clinical practice of nurses. The review draws on papers primarily from North America and the UK and highlights the methodological approaches used to discover if and how nursing practice is influenced. The impact of CPE on nurses as individuals is detailed along with the effects of CPE on the delivery of patient care.
The origin of the genetic code coincided with the origin of life, while the human codes of cultural evolution emerged almost four billion years later. Modern biology does not recognize any other organic code in nature, and is bound therefore to conclude that the whole of cellular evolution consisted of informational changes. Semantic transformations, natural conventions and biological meaning are things that officially do not exist in the organic world, and play no part in our reconstruction of development and evolution. And yet the properties of organic codes are beginning to emerge in various biological processes. Here it is shown that splicing, signal transduction and pattern formation can be accounted for precisely by the existence of organic codes. It is also shown that those processes were instrumental in bringing about major changes in the history of life, and it is concluded that every main step of macroevolution corresponded to the origin of a new organic code.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: With improved methods for detecting chimeras and growing numbers of stem cell transplantations, blood group and other forms of chimerism are observed with increasing frequency. This review will focus on the state of science and new insights into the multifaceted subject of blood group chimerism. RECENT FINDINGS: Recognition that the immune system tolerates chimeric cells under certain conditions has led to efforts to elucidate related immune-modulating processes. The chimeric state following transplantation of hematopoietic stem cells, as well as after solid organ transplantation, is of special interest. Also, chimerism is considered to be a potential trigger for certain autoimmune diseases. Natural chimerism is more frequent than previously recognized. Using improved laboratory techniques, investigators can often trace chimeric tissues to their origin. New therapeutic strategies have been applied after stem cell transplantation depending on the chimeric state. Also, recent research has resulted in methods for determining chimerism in maternal peripheral blood that reflect fetal blood type and certain congenital diseases. SUMMARY: The subject of human chimerism has evolved from a curiosity of nature to an important field of research and, potentially, holds the key to advancing our understanding of the fundamental mechanisms of immune tolerance.
BACKGROUND AND AIM: The objective of this research was to determine whether invasively measured central pulse pressure (PP) in patients indicated for coronarography is associated with two common polymorphisms in the ACE2 region (rs4646156 and rs4646174). METHODS: A total of 307 patients were enrolled in the study. The genotyping of both SNPs from peripheral blood samples was carried out using 5'exonuclease (Taqman(R)) chemistry on the ABI Prism(R) 7000 system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). RESULTS: In both polymorphisms, the associations with central PP were found to be highly significant when all five possible genotypes in the population had been compared (p = 0.0001). In men, there was a higher incidence of previous myocardial infarction in G0 genotype carriers of rs54646174 (OR ratio = 7; p = 0.005). The AA genotype of rs4646156 had a 7.81x higher risk of severe angina pectoris in women (OR = 7.81, p = 0.05). A significant difference in allelic frequency of ACE2rs4646174 was found between women with and without significant stenoses of the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery. CONCLUSION: More research into the role of ACE2 genetic variability in PP regulations is necessary for more detailed physiological and pathophysiological comprehension of PP regulation.
The antigen preparation most often used for determining the levels of antibodies to virulence-associated proteins of Shigella spp. consists of a mixture of proteins (including IpaB, IpaC, IpaD, and VirG*) extracted from virulent shigellae with water (water extract). To overcome the lack of specificity for individual antigens in the water-extract enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), the ipaD gene from S. flexneri has been cloned, expressed to a high level, and purified for use in a new ELISA for the determination of the levels of antibody against IpaD in monkeys and humans challenged with shigellae. The IpaD ELISA for serum immunoglobulins G and A correlated well with the water-extract ELISA in that monkeys infected with S. flexneri or S. sonnei responded with high serum antibody titers in both assays. The IpaD assay required less antigen per well, had much lower background levels, and did not require correction with antigens from an avirulent organism. In conjunction with the water-extract ELISA, it was possible to identify infected animals that did not respond to IpaD but did produce antibodies that reacted in the water-extract ELISA. This indicates that even though IpaB, IpaC, and IpaD are essential for the invasiveness phenotype, the infected host does not always produce antibodies against all components of the invasiveness apparatus.
The antisymmetric product of strongly orthogonal geminals (APSG) method is a wave function theory that can effectively treat the static electron correlation. Recently, we proposed the open-shell APSG method using one-electron orbitals for open-shell parts. In this paper, we have extended the perturbation correction to the open-shell APSG calculations through Moller-Plesset-type multiconfiguration perturbation theory (MP-MCPT). Numerical applications demonstrate that the present open-shell MP-MCPT can reasonably reproduce the dissociation energies or equilibrium distances for open-shell systems.
BACKGROUND: Skin testing can expose allergic subjects to potential systemic reactions, sensitization against unrelated proteins, and increased risk of future sting reactions. Therefore the continuous improvement of in vitro diagnostic methods is desirable. Recombinant allergens have been shown to improve the sensitivity of specific IgE (sIgE) detection in vitro whilst no data is available regarding their application and reliability in basophil activation test (BAT). Here we aimed to compare the specificity and sensitivity of recombinant allergens Ves v 1, Ves v 2, Ves v 3 and Ves v 5 in both specific IgE (sIgE) detection in vitro and basophil activation test. METHODS: sIgE detection by ELISA or ImmunoCAP and BAT towards the panel of recombinant allergens Ves v 1, Ves v 2, Ves v 3 and Ves v 5 were performed in 43 wasp venom allergic patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction and sIgE seropositivity, as well as 17 controls defined as subjects with a history of repetitive wasp stings but absence of any allergic symptom. RESULTS: The BAT performed with the recombinant allergens Ves v 1, Ves v 2, Ves v 3 and Ves v 5 markedly improved the specificity of diagnosis in wasp venom allergic subjects when compared to the respective sIgE detection in serum. CONCLUSIONS: BAT performed with the recombinant allergens Ves v 5, Ves v 3 and Ves v 1 provides an emerging highly specific in vitro method for the detection of wasp venom allergy, compared to the sIgE detection. Recombinant allergens applied to BAT represent a step forward in developing reliable in vitro tests for specific diagnosis of allergy.
AIM: Study the state of intestine microecology in patients with obstructive jaundice after decompression of bile ducts and administration of lactulose. MATERIALS AND METHODS: 58 patients of different gender and age who were under treatment in the 13th surgical department of City Clinical Hospital No. 7 due to obstructive jaundice were examined. Evaluation of lactulose administration was carried out in a blinded randomized study. The patients were divided into 2 groups of 29 individuals each: (1) patients who had undergone surgery without administration oflactulose (control) and (2) patients who had received immediately after decompression of bile ducts 30 ml of lactulose for 1 week (comparison group). Feces samples were obtained with a weekly interval for bacteriological study for dysbacteriosis. RESULTS: Based on the results of bacteriological analysis of feces in all the 58 patients with mechanical jaundice disorders of intestine microecology of various severity degrees were detected. In the patient group who had received lactulose for 7 days after the decompression ofbile ducts a tendency for an increase ofpopulation level of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli and a decrease of quantity of opportunistic microorganisms of various taxonomical groups was noted. CONCLUSION: Administration of lactulose to patients at 30 ml dose per day for 7 days positively affected the state of microbiocenosis of colon towards its normalization.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs have been suggested to play important roles in the regulation of gene expression in various biological processes. To investigate the function of miRNAs in chicken ovarian development and folliculogenesis, two small RNA libraries constructed from sexually mature (162-day old) and immature (42-day old) ovary tissues of Single Comb White Leghorn chicken were sequenced using Illumina small RNA deep sequencing. RESULTS: In the present study, 14,545,100 and 14,774,864 clean reads were obtained from sexually mature (162-d) and sexually immature (42-d) ovaries, respectively. In total, 202 known miRNAs were identified, and 93 of them were found to be significantly differentially expressed: 42 miRNAs were up-regulated and 51 miRNAs were down-regulated in the mature ovary compared to the immature ovary. Among the up-regulated miRNAs, gga-miR-1a has the largest fold-change (6.405-fold), while gga-miR-375 has the largest fold-change (11.345-fold) among the down-regulated miRNAs. The three most abundant miRNAs in the chicken ovary are gga-miR-10a, gga-let-7 and gga-miR-21. Five differentially expressed miRNAs (gga-miR-1a, 21, 26a, 137 and 375) were validated by real-time quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Furthermore, the expression patterns of the five miRNAs were analyzed in different developmental stages of chicken ovary and follicles of various sizes. CONCLUSION: The present study provides the first miRNA profile in sexually immature and mature chicken ovaries. Some miRNAs such as gga-miR-1a and gga-miR-21are expressed differentially in immature and mature chicken ovaries as well as among different sized follicles, suggesting an important role in the follicular growth or ovulation mechanism in the chicken.
AIMS: We sought to describe the incidence, predictors, and impact of adverse neurological events (NE) in a non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTEACS) population undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), or medical therapy (MT). METHODS AND RESULTS: 13,819 patients with moderate and high-risk NSTEACS were enrolled in the prospective ACUITY trial. Angiography was performed within 72 hours of presentation, after which 7,789 patients (56.4%) underwent PCI, 1,539 (11.1%) underwent CABG, and 4,491 (32.5%) received MT. The rate of NE (stroke or transient ischaemic attack) at 30 days and one year and its relationship to adverse ischaemic events, including death, were assessed. Thirty-day rates of NE were 1.1% with CABG, 0.3% with PCI, and 0.5% with MT (p<0.001). One-year rates of NE were 1.1% with CABG, 0.3% with PCI, and 0.6% with MT (p<0.001). Independent predictors of NE at 30 days and one year included age, renal insufficiency, baseline troponin elevation, and initial treatment with CABG. The occurrence of NE was a strong independent predictor of death at 30 days and one year (HR 4.07, 95% CI [1.49, 11.11], p=0.006, and HR 4.25, 95% CI [2.37, 7.62], p<0.001, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: In the large-scale ACUITY trial, CABG was associated with a higher risk of NE at 30 days and one year compared to PCI and MT. The occurrence of NE in patients with NSTEACS was strongly associated with increased early and late mortality. Clinical Trials.gov Identifier NCT00093158.
The DAX-1 gene has been involved in the dosage sensitive sex reversal (DSS) phenotype, a male-to-female sex-reversal syndrome due to the duplication of a small region of human chromosome Xp21. Dax-1 and Sry have been shown to act antagonistically in the mouse system, where increasing expression of the former leads to female development and increasing activity of the latter to male development. Although these data strongly implicate DAX-1 in sex determination, the mouse and human proteins appear to behave differently. Absence of DAX-1 is responsible for adrenal hypoplasia congenita, a human inherited disorder characterized by adrenal insufficiency and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Unlike human patients, Dax-1-deficient XY mice have normal levels of corticotropins and adrenal hormones but are sterile. Dax-1-deficient females are fertile. The DAX-1 protein, an unusual member of the nuclear hormone receptor, may act as a transcriptional repressor. It has been shown to both repress transcriptional activators by direct protein-protein interactions and to bind DNA hairpin structures and repress target genes.
AIM: To develop and evaluate a rapid enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the diagnosis of intravascular catheter related sepsis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci. METHODS: Forty patients with a clinical and microbiological diagnosis of intravascular catheter related sepsis and positive blood cultures, caused by coagulase negative staphylococci, and 40 control patients requiring a central venous catheter as part of their clinical management were recruited into the study. Serum IgG responses to a previously undetected exocellular antigen produced by coagulase negative staphylococci, termed lipid S, were determined in the patient groups by a rapid ELISA. RESULTS: There was a significant difference (p = < 0.0001) in serum IgG to lipid S between patients with catheter related sepsis and controls. The mean antibody titre in patients with sepsis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci was 10 429 (range, no detectable serum IgG antibody to 99 939), whereas serum IgG was not detected in the control group of patients. CONCLUSIONS: The rapid ELISA offers a simple, economical, and rapid diagnostic test for suspected intravascular catheter related sepsis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci, which can be difficult to diagnose clinically. This may facilitate treatment with appropriate antimicrobials and may help prevent the unnecessary removal of intravascular catheters.
Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is the most frequent tumor of HIV-1-infected individuals (AIDS-KS). Typical features of KS are proliferating spindle-shaped cells, considered to be the tumor cells of KS, and endothelial cells forming blood vessels. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), a potent angiogenic factor, is highly expressed by KS spindle cells in vivo and after injection in nude mice it induces vascular lesions closely resembling early KS in humans. Similar lesions are induced by inoculating nude mice with cultured spindle cells from AIDS-KS lesions (AIDS-KS cells) which produce and release bFGF. Here we show that phosphorothioate antisense (AS) oligonucleotides directed against bFGF mRNA (ASbFGF) inhibit both the growth of AIDS-KS cells derived from different patients and the angiogenic activity associated with these cells, including the induction of KS-like lesions in nude mice. These effects are due to the block of the production of bFGF which is required by AIDS-KS cells to enter the cell cycle and which, after release, mediates angiogenesis. The effects of ASbFGF are specific, dose dependent, achieved at low (0.1-1 microM), nontoxic, oligomer concentrations, and are reversed by the addition of bFGF to the cells, suggesting that ASbFGF oligomers are promising drug candidates for KS therapy.
Haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients are at high risk for mucormycosis, which has a mortality of up to 90%. The adoptive transfer of Natural killer (NK) cells is a promising therapeutic option in order to improve the reconstitution of host immunity after HSCT and to directly combat the fungal pathogen. As a number of fungal pathogens have developed strategies to evade the innate immune system, we investigated the interaction of human NK cells with various clinical isolates of different species of mucormycetes. Our results show that human IL-2 prestimulated NK cells damaged all mucormycetes tested. The extent of the damage depended, at least in part, on the growth curve characteristics of the individual fungal isolate. All isolates decreased the secretion of interferon-gamma by NK cells to a similar extent. Our data suggest that NK cells damage a wide spectrum of mucormycetes, but that the antifungal effect is higher if NK cells are administered at an early time point of infection.
Myosin storage myopathy (MSM) is a congenital myopathy characterized by the presence of subsarcolemmal inclusions of myosin in the majority of type I muscle fibers, and has been linked to 4 mutations in the slow/cardiac muscle myosin, beta-MyHC (MYH7). Although the majority of the >230 disease causing mutations in MYH7 are located in the globular head region of the molecule, those responsible for MSM are part of a subset of MYH7 mutations that are located in the alpha-helical coiled-coil tail. Mutations in the myosin head are thought to affect the ATPase and actin-binding properties of the molecule. To date, however, there are no reports of the molecular mechanism of pathogenesis for mutations in the rod region of muscle myosins. Here, we present analysis of 4 mutations responsible for MSM: L1793P, R1845W, E1886K, and H1901L. We show that each MSM mutation has a different molecular phenotype, suggesting that there are multiple mechanisms by which MSM can be caused. These mechanisms range from thermodynamic and functional irregularities of individual proteins (L1793P), to varying defects in the assembly and stability of filaments formed from the proteins (R1845W, E1886K, and H1901L). In addition to furthering our understanding of MSM, these observations provide the first insight into how mutations affect the rod region of muscle myosins, and provide a framework for future studies of disease-causing mutations in this region of the molecule.
BACKGROUND: There is consistent evidence that depression symptoms predict long-term mortality following a myocardial infarction, and recent results show a dose-related gradient. The importance of other psychological variables remains unclear. METHODS: This study examines the relative importance of depression, anxiety, anger, and social support in predicting 5-year cardiac-related mortality following a myocardial infarction and assesses the role of any common underlying dimensions. The design of this cohort analytic study involves self-reports (Beck Depression Inventory, state scale of the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, 20-item version of the General Health Questionnaire, Modified Somatic Perception Questionnaire, Anger Expression Scale, Perceived Social Support Scale, number of close friends and relatives, and visual analog scales of anger and stress). The study was conducted in 10 Montreal-area hospitals. The patients included 896 persons who experienced a myocardial infarction, aged 24 to 88 years (232 were women), followed up for 5 years using Medicare records; baseline data were complete for 95.0% of the patients. The intervention was usual care, and the main outcome measure was 5-year cardiac-related mortality. RESULTS: The Beck Depression Inventory (P<.001), the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (P =.04), and the 20-item version of the General Health Questionnaire (P =.048) were related to outcome), but only depression remained significant after adjustment for cardiac disease severity (hazards ratio per SD, 1.46; 95% confidence interval, 1.18-1.79) (P<.001). Exploratory factor analysis revealed 3 underlying factors: negative affectivity, overt anger, and social support. There was also a covariate-adjusted trend between negative affectivity scores and outcome (P =.08). Furthermore, residual depression scores (P =.001) and negative affectivity scores (P =.05) were linked to cardiac-related mortality after adjustment for each other and cardiac covariates. CONCLUSIONS: Negative affectivity and some unique aspect of depression predict long-term cardiac-related mortality following a myocardial infarction independently of each other and cardiac disease severity. Additional research is needed to characterize the mechanisms involved.
Initiation of DNA replication at origins more than once per cell cycle results in rereplication and has been implicated in cancer. Here we use Drosophila to examine the checkpoint responses to rereplication in a developmental context. We find that increased Double-parked (Dup), the Drosophila ortholog of Cdt1, results in rereplication and DNA damage. In most cells, this rereplication triggers caspase activation and apoptotic cell death mediated by both p53-dependent and -independent pathways. Elevated Dup also caused DNA damage in endocycling cells, which switch to a G/S cycle during normal development, indicating that rereplication and the endocycling DNA reduplication program are distinct processes. Unexpectedly, however, endocycling cells do not apoptose regardless of tissue type. Our combined evidence suggests that endocycling apoptosis is repressed in part because proapoptotic gene promoters are silenced. Normal endocycling cells had DNA lesions near heterochromatin, which increased after rereplication, explaining why endocycling cells must constantly repress the genotoxic apoptotic response. Our results reveal a novel regulation of apoptosis in development and new insights into the little-understood endocycle. Similar mechanisms may operate during vertebrate development, with implications for cancer predisposition in certain tissues.
Quality control of defective mRNAs relies on their translation to detect the lesion. Aberrant proteins are therefore an obligate byproduct of mRNA surveillance and must be degraded to avoid disrupting protein homeostasis. These defective translation products are thought to be ubiquitinated at the ribosome, but the mechanism of ubiquitin ligase selectivity for these ribosomes is not clear. Here, we in vitro reconstitute ubiquitination of nascent proteins produced from aberrant mRNAs. Stalled 80S ribosome-nascent chain complexes are dissociated by the ribosome recycling factors Hbs1/Pelota/ABCE1 to a unique 60S-nascent chain-tRNA complex. The ubiquitin ligase Listerin preferentially recognizes 60S-nascent chains and triggers efficient nascent chain ubiquitination. Interfering with Hbs1 function stabilizes 80S complexes, precludes efficient Listerin recruitment, and reduces nascent chain ubiquitination. Thus, ribosome recycling factors control Listerin localization, explaining how translation products of mRNA surveillance are efficiently ubiquitinated while sparing translating ribosomes.
The past few years have seen an increase in the clinical awareness of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), one of the most disabling and least understood behavioral disorders. Although the biological bases of PTSD are poorly understood, fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) activity has been linked with arousability and aversive-memories extinction, that is, two key features of PTSD. In this study, we investigated the association between the FAAH genetic polymorphisms and PTSD development and maintenance. We assessed PTSD frequency in a group of male Vietnam war veterans who suffered combat-related penetrating traumatic brain injury, that is, a relatively homogeneous population regarding the nature of the events that led to PTSD. We showed that rs2295633, a single-nucleotide polymorphism of FAAH, was significantly associated with PTSD diagnosis in subjects without lesions in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Moreover, the presence of the C allele was associated with more severe re-experiencing of trauma and more negative reported childhood experiences. In conclusion, our data suggest that FAAH has an important role in PTSD through modulation of aversive memories and point to both a novel therapeutic target and a possible risk marker for this condition.
A gene locus of Bacillus subtilis identified by mutations (prs) conferring a defect in protein secretion was cloned from a lambdaGEM-11 expression library. The sites of three closely linked prs mutations (prs-3, prs-29 and prs-40) were found to reside in a 5.3 kb DNA fragment, which also complemented the secretion defect in prs-3 and prs-29 mutants. Partial sequencing of the fragment showed that these three mutations affect one distinct gene (prsA) encoding a putative protein of 292 amino acids (33 kDa). Sequence analysis indicated the PrsA protein to be a lipoprotein located outside the cytoplasmic membrane. Thirty percent identity was shown to the PrtM protein of Lactococcus lactis, which is involved in the maturation of an exported proteinase. The phenotypes of prsA mutants and the structural similarity of PrsA with PrtM suggest that PrsA may have a novel function at a late phase in protein export.
Haloalkane dehalogenase catalyzes the hydrolytic cleavage of carbon-halogen bonds in short-chain haloalkanes. Two tryptophan residues of the enzyme (Trp125 and Trp175) form a halide-binding site in the active-site cavity, and were proposed to play a role in catalysis. The function of these residues was studied by replacing Trp125 with phenylalanine, glutamine or arginine and Trp175 by glutamine using site-directed mutagenesis. All mutants except Trp125-->Phe showed a more than 10-fold reduced kcat and much higher Km values with 1,2-dichloroethane and 1,2-dibromoethane than the wild-type enzyme. Fluorescence quenching experiments showed a decrease in the affinity of the mutant enzymes for halide ions. The 2H kinetic isotope effect observed with the wild-type enzyme in deuterium oxide was lost in the active mutants, except the Trp125-->Phe enzyme. The results indicate that both tryptophans are involved in stabilizing the transition state during the nucleophilic substitution reaction that causes carbon-halogen bond cleavage.
AIM: To establish and evaluate a quick and accurate DNA microarray method to detect intestinal pathogens directly from human diarrheal stool samples as an alternative to traditional culture methods. METHOD: Primers and 21 oligonucleotide probes based on sequences of the bacterial 16SrRNA gene were arrayed on microarray slides. Hybridization between probes and amplicons was performed. To determine the consistency of DNA microarray and culture method, 1,500 samples of clinical diarrheal stool and 200 samples of normal stool from healthy individuals were examined in a double-blind fashion. Basic information from patients was collected and analyzed. RESULT: Our data showed that the probes of the assay were successful in discriminating 14 genera or species of intestinal pathogens. The limit of detection was approximately 10(3) CFU/ml for one species of pathogen. Of the 1,500 clinical cases, 32.7% of the patient stools were positive for bacteria. Using stool culture as a control, gene-chip sensitivity was 100%, specificity 95.2%, and index of accurate diagnosis 0.952. CONCLUSION: Our data suggested that DNA microarray with its high efficiency and accuracy could be used as an alternative to the culture method.
BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) risk has been associated with leaky ryanodine receptor 2 (RyR2) Ca release channels. Patients with mutations in RyR2 or in the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca-binding protein calsequestrin 2 (Casq2) display an increased risk for AF. Here, we examine the underlying mechanisms of AF associated with loss of Casq2 and test mechanism-based drug therapy. METHODS AND RESULTS: Compared with wild-type Casq2+/+ mice, atrial burst pacing consistently induced atrial flutter or AF in Casq2-/- mice and in isolated Casq2-/- hearts. Atrial optical voltage maps obtained from isolated hearts revealed multiple independent activation sites arising predominantly from the pulmonary vein region. Ca and voltage mapping demonstrated diastolic subthreshold spontaneous Ca elevations (SCaEs) and delayed afterdepolarizations whenever the pacing train failed to induce AF. The dual RyR2 and Na channel inhibitor R-propafenone (3 mumol/L) significantly reduced frequency and amplitude of SCaEs and delayed afterdepolarizations in atrial myocytes and intact atria and prevented induction of AF. In contrast, the S-enantiomer of propafenone, an equipotent Na channel blocker but much weaker RyR2 inhibitor, did not reduce SCaEs and delayed afterdepolarizations and failed to prevent AF. CONCLUSIONS: Loss of Casq2 increases risk of AF by promoting regional SCaEs and delayed afterdepolarizations in atrial tissue, which can be prevented by RyR2 inhibition with R-propafenone. Targeting AF caused by leaky RyR2 Ca channels with R-propafenone may be a more mechanism-based approach to treating this common arrhythmia.
Periodontal ligament (PDL) cells have been associated with the regulation of periodontal repair processes by the differential expression of osteoprotegerin and RANKL in response to intermittent parathyroid hormone (PTH) resulting in a modified activity of bone-resorbing osteoclasts. Here, we examined the intracellular signaling pathways that PDL cells use to mediate the PTH(1-34) effect on osteoprotegerin production and hypothesized that those would be dependent on the cellular maturation stage. Two stages of confluence served as a model for cellular maturation of 5th passage human PDL cells from six donors. Intermittent PTH(1-34) (10(-12) M) and PTH(1-31), the latter lacking the protein kinase C (PKC) activating domain, induced a significant decrease of osteoprotegerin production in confluent cultures, whereas the signal-specific fragments PTH(3-34) and PTH(7-34), which both are unable to activate protein kinase A (PKA), had no effect. The addition of the PKA inhibitor H8 antagonized the PTH(1-34) effect, whereas the PKC inhibitor RO-32-0432 did not. In pre-confluent, less mature cultures, intermittent PTH(1-34) resulted in a significant increase of osteoprotegerin. Similar results were obtained when PTH(1-31) substituted for PTH(1-34) as opposed to a lack of an effect of PTH(3-34) and PTH(7-34). Likewise, in confluent cultures, H8 inhibited the PTH(1-34) effect in pre-confluent cultures contrasted by RO-32-0432 which had no effect. These findings indicate that PTH(1-34) signaling targeting osteoprotegerin production in PDL cells involves a PKA-dependent pathway. The PTH(1-34) effect is dependent on cell status, whereas intracellular signal transduction is not. Clinical trials will have to prove whether those in vitro data are of physiological relevance for interference strategies.
Urate oxidase is an important enzyme with therapeutic and diagnostic applications. Rasburicase is a recombinant urate oxidase enzyme approved by FDA to use in the treatment of hyperuricemia conditions. Various hosts such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Hansenula polymorpha and Escherichia coli have been used to express the enzyme. Today, Pichia pastoris is considered as an important host for heterologous protein expression since it has beneficial characteristics such as strong promoters, simple scale up, post translational modifications, high cell density cultivation and simple genetic manipulation. In this study, Aspergillus flavus urate oxidase gene was cloned in pPICZalphaA expression vector and expressed in P. pastoris. The recombinant urate oxidase was expressed in secretory form and was confirmed through RT-PCR, SDS-PAGE analysis and western blotting. The enzyme activity was determined using a colorimetric assay. A production yield of 0.43 U/ml of culture supernatant was obtained.
IE-2 of Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) has been shown to play important roles in baculovirus infection, which are involved in gene expression and viral replication. However, the mechanism remains unknown. In this paper, by TargetP software, four genes, i.e.-2, odv-e26, odv-e56 and BmNPV-gp101 (Ac-orf116) of BmNPV and Autographa californica multiple NPV (AcMNPV) were predicted to be located in mitochondria. By BLAST tool using BmNPV IE-2 protein sequence, 14 NPVs were found to have IE-2 homologues in GenBank, and most of them were predicted to be located in mitochondria, except for that of Antheraea pernyi NPV (AnpeNPV) and Anticarsia gemmatalis NPV (AngeNPV). To observe the subcellular localization of BmNPV IE-2, a recombinant virus overexpressed the IE-2 and eGFP fusion protein was constructed. In infected BmN cells, the fluorescence specifically enriched in the cellular mitochondria. This evidence was accordant with the prediction. Further, Pull-down assay was used to select protein candidates interacting with IE-2 in B. mori cells infected with BmNPV. Of several isolated protein components, sixteen candidates were identified by MALDI-TOF mass-spectrometry, eight baculoviral proteins (ALK-EXO, F protein, IAP-1, LEF-3, LEF-9, ODV-NC42, TLP, and VP39), and eight proteins from B. mori (Actin, ADP/ATP translocase, ATP synthase subunit beta, Beta-tubulin, DNA topoisomerase 2, Histone H4, Soluble guanylyl cyclae alpha-1 subunit, Transketolase). From the functional point of view, most of these proteins were generally divided into two groups, mitochondrial interaction proteins and viral DNA replication proteins. These results implied that the IE-2 had multiple functions involved in regulating viral gene expression, viral replication and also as a component of mitochondrial factors to regulate the cellular energy supply and apoptosis.
This paper studied the structures of basal diameter, height and canopy width of Camellia azalea population in E' huangzhang Nature Reserve of Guangdong. The spatial distribution patterns and dynamics of the population were measured by applying aggregate indices including disperse coefficient, negative binomial distribution, Cassie index, clumping index, mean crowding, patch index and Green index. The results showed that in the natural distribution region, the population was mainly composed of adult trees, and was in declining due to seriously lack of seedlings. The structures of diameter, height and canopy width were not identical among different plots. In the plots, the spatial distribution pattern of C. azalea population showed clump or random, and changed from clump to random with the development of the population.
E. coli strains carrying the dam-3 and dam-4 mutations resulting in reduced levels of 6-methyladenine in the DNA have been found to be more sensitive to base analogue mutagenesis than dam+ strains. Mutagenesis by EMS was also found to be enhanced in dam- strains. Dam- mutants however were not found to be hypermutable by UV light. It is concluded that the dam- strains are deficient in the correct repair of mispairing lesions. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that 6-methyladenine residues in the DNA are involved in strand discrimination during mismatch correction.
We report the frequencies of the Hp, Tf, Gc, Gm, Km, Ag and C3 plasma groups, and of the AcP1, PGD, PGM1, AK1, ADA, s-GPT and EsD enzyme groups, and we list the rare variants we observed in a Belgian population samples from the Liege region.
Five wheat-barley translocations in a wheat background were characterized through the combination of cytogenetic and molecular genetic approaches. The wheat chromosome segments involved in the translocations were identified using sequential GISH and two-colour FISH with the probes pSc119.2 and pAs1. The barley chromatin in these lines was identified using SSR markers. A total of 45 markers distributed over the total barley genome were selected from a recently published linkage map of barley and tested on the translocation lines. The following translocations were identified: 2DS.2DL-1HS, 3HS.3BL, 6BS.6BL-4HL, 4D-5HS, and 7DL.7DS-5HS. Wheat-barley disomic and ditelosomic addition lines for the chromosomes 3HS, 4H, 4HL, 5H, 5HL, and 6HS were used to determine the correct location of 21 markers and the position of the centromere. An intragenomic translocation breakpoint was detected on the short arm of the barley chromosome 5H with the help of SSR marker analysis. Physical mapping of the SSR markers on chromosomes 1H and 5H was carried out using the intragenomic and the interspecific translocation breakpoints, as well as the centromere, as physical landmarks.
Global climate change and ocean acidification pose a serious threat to marine life. Marine invertebrates are particularly susceptible to ocean acidification, especially highly calcareous taxa such as molluscs, echinoderms and corals. The largest of all bivalve molluscs, giant clams, are already threatened by a variety of local pressures, including overharvesting, and are in decline worldwide. Several giant clam species are listed as 'Vulnerable' on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species and now climate change and ocean acidification pose an additional threat to their conservation. Unlike most other molluscs, giant clams are 'solar-powered' animals containing photosynthetic algal symbionts suggesting that light could influence the effects of ocean acidification on these vulnerable animals. In this study, juvenile fluted giant clams Tridacna squamosa were exposed to three levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) (control ~400, mid ~650 and high ~950 muatm) and light (photosynthetically active radiation 35, 65 and 304 mumol photons m-2 s-1). Elevated CO2 projected for the end of this century (~650 and ~950 muatm) reduced giant clam survival and growth at mid-light levels. However, effects of CO2 on survival were absent at high-light, with 100% survival across all CO2 levels. Effects of CO2 on growth of surviving clams were lessened, but not removed, at high-light levels. Shell growth and total animal mass gain were still reduced at high-CO2. This study demonstrates the potential for light to alleviate effects of ocean acidification on survival and growth in a threatened calcareous marine invertebrate. Managing water quality (e.g. turbidity and sedimentation) in coastal areas to maintain water clarity may help ameliorate some negative effects of ocean acidification on giant clams and potentially other solar-powered calcifiers, such as hard corals.
Leishmania mexicana mutants lacking cysteine proteinase genes cpa (delta cpa), cpb (delta cpb), or both cpa and cpb (delta cpa/cpb) have been generated by targeted gene disruption. Delta cpa mutants produce a disease phenotype in BALB/c mice close to that of wild-type L. mexicana, but delta cpb mutants are much less infective, producing very slowly growing small lesions, and delta cpa/cpb double mutants do not induce lesion growth. Immunologic analysis of Ab isotype during infection and splenocyte IFN-gamma, IL-2, and IL-4 production following stimulation with Leishmania Ag or Con A indicates that there was a significant shift from a predominantly Th2-associated immune response in mice infected with wild-type L. mexicana to a Th1-associated response in mice inoculated with delta cpb or delta cpa/cpb. Significantly, delta cpa altered the balance of the immunologic response to a lesser extent than did the other mutants. Similar disease outcomes and switches in the Th1/Th2 balance were also observed when other L. mexicana-susceptible mouse strains were infected with the mutants. BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice vaccinated with delta cpa/cpb and CBA/Ca mice vaccinated with delta cpb or delta cpa/cpb were subsequently more resistant, to varying degrees, than were untreated mice to infection with wild-type parasites, as measured by development of lesions and parasite burden. These data implicate leishmanial cysteine proteinases not only as parasite virulence factors but also in modulation of the immune response and provide strong encouragement that cysteine proteinase-deficient L. mexicana mutants are candidate attenuated live vaccines.
Biotextile structures from silk fibroin have demonstrated to be particularly interesting for tissue engineering (TE) applications due to their high mechanical strength, interconnectivity, porosity, and ability to degrade under physiological conditions. In this work, we described several surface treatments of knitted silk fibroin (SF) scaffolds, namely sodium hydroxide (NaOH) solution, ultraviolet radiation exposure in an ozone atmosphere (UV/O3) and oxygen (O2) plasma treatment followed by acrylic acid (AAc), vinyl phosphonic acid (VPA), and vinyl sulfonic acid (VSA) immersion. The effect of these treatments on the mechanical properties of the textile constructs was evaluated by tensile tests in dry and hydrated states. Surface properties such as morphology, topography, wettability and elemental composition were also affected by the applied treatments. The in vitro biological behavior of L929 fibroblasts revealed that cells were able to adhere and spread both on the untreated and surface-modified textile constructs. The applied treatments had different effects on the scaffolds' surface properties, confirming that these modifications can be considered as useful techniques to modulate the surface of biomaterials according to the targeted application.
An attenuated strain of Salmonella typhimurium was used as a vehicle for oral gene therapy against murine tumor. Eukaryotic expression vectors containing genes of human interleukin-12 (hIL-12), human granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (hGM-CSF), mouse (m)IL-12, mGM-CSF and green fluorescent protein (GFP) were used to transform attenuated Salmonella (SL3261), and such transformants were administered orally to BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. As a reporter gene, GFP expression in murine liver, spleen, tumor, intestine and kidney was confirmed by confocal and flow cytometry. Soluble cytokines were detected in murine sera, and the concentrations were much higher than those of the control, which contributed to the increased number of cytotoxic T cells and prolongation of survival. Oral cytokine gene therapy using live attenuated Salmonella demonstrated a significant protection against the development of two unrelated murine tumors. These results suggest that such gene therapy has the potential to be simple, effective and (above all) safe against tumor.
BACKGROUND: The checkpoint with forkhead-associated domain and RING-finger domain (CHFR) is a mitotic checkpoint protein with tumor-suppressor functions. In this study, the authors investigated the epigenetic and genetic mechanisms that regulate CHFR expression in esophageal adenocarcinomas (EACs). METHODS: Quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated downregulation of CHFR transcript in 79% of EACs (44 of 56) compared with 41 normal samples (P < .001). Immunohistochemical analysis of CHFR protein expression showed absence or weak immunostaining for CHFR in 75% of EACs (56 of 75) compared with normal tissue samples. The authors next examined the promoter DNA hypermethylation of CHFR by using quantitative bisulfite pyrosequencing technology. They detected significant CHFR promoter DNA hypermethylation in 31% of tumor samples (18 of 58) compared with normal samples (P < .001). Treatment of OE33 cells with 5-Aza-deoxycytidine led to reduction in the promoter DNA methylation levels with restoration of the CHFR mRNA expression, which confirmed promoter DNA methylation as an epigenetic mechanism regulating CHFR expression. However, they identified several EACs where the CHFR mRNA expression was silenced in the absence of notable methylation. Therefore, the authors examined the relative DNA copy number level of CHFR compared with normal samples. RESULTS: The results confirmed a decrease or absence of the relative CHFR DNA copy number levels in 59% of tumor samples. Nine tumors that showed loss of CHFR mRNA expression, in absence of promoter DNA hypermethylation, demonstrated a significant loss of relative CHFR DNA copy numbers. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, their findings demonstrated that both epigenetic and genetic mechanisms were involved in silencing CHFR expression in EACs.
Binge eating is seen across the spectrum of eating disorder diagnoses as well as among individuals who do not meet diagnostic criteria. Analyses of the specific types of foods that are frequently binged upon reveal that sugar-rich items feature prominently in binge-type meals, making the effects of binge consumption of sugar an important focus of study. One avenue to do this involves the use of animal models. Foundational and recent studies of animal models of sugar bingeing, both outlined here, lend insight into the various neurotransmitters and neuropeptides that may participate in or be altered by this behavior. Further, several preclinical studies incorporating sugar bingeing paradigms have explored the utility of pharmacological agents that target such neural systems for reducing sugar bingeing in an effort to enhance clinical treatment. Indeed, the translational implications of findings generated using animal models of sugar bingeing are considered here, along with potential avenues for further study.
Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) has been controversially linked with Crohn's disease (CD). Detection of MAP in CD has been highly variable, and one explanation might be the genetic heterogeneity of this syndrome. Many of the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) linked with CD are contained within genes that are associated with bacterial handling in general, and some are specifically implicated in susceptibility to mycobacterial disease. We tested a cohort of IBD patients (n = 149) to determine whether the presence of MAP was associated with a selection of these SNPs. Blood samples from CD patients (n = 84), ulcerative colitis (UC, n = 65) patients and healthy controls (n = 55) were examined for the presence of MAP and SNPs in ATG16L1, IL12B, NOD2/CARD15, NKx2-3, IL23R and IRGM. Statistical analysis was then used to determine whether there was any association between the presence of MAP and these SNPs. MAP, rs2241880 (ATG16L1) and rs10045431 (IL12B) were found to be significantly associated with CD. The presence of MAP was not related to the status of the SNPs in ATG16L1 or IL12B. We have found no evidence for the contribution of these SNPs to the presence of MAP in CD patients.
Deletion of activated peripheral T cell clones by apoptosis requires the regulated expression of Fas ligand (FasL) and sensitization of these cells to CD95-mediated signaling. To investigate the signaling pathways responsible for FasL expression in T cells, we tested-besides subfamily-selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors - the effect of constitutively active mutants of representatives of all PKC subfamilies, i.e. PKCalpha,epsilon,theta,iota, on FasL luciferase promoter reporter constructs. In synergy with a constitutively active form of protein phosphatase 2B calcineurin (CaN), only PKCtheta, but not PKCalpha,epsilon,iota, preferentially induced FasL promoter reporter activity and, consequently, FasL protein expression in Jurkat T cells. Activation of an inducible PKCtheta AE-estrogen receptor fusion mutant led to a CaN-dependent and rapid FasL reporter activity detected as early as 4 h after addition of 4-hydroxytamoxifen, incidating a direct effect of PKCtheta action on FasL expression. Consistently, in Jurkat T cells, expression of PKCtheta AE / CaN significantly enhanced FasL protein expression and apoptosis in a CD95-dependent manner since cell death was not observed in T cells co-expressing the caspase-8 inhibitor crmA. Taken together, our results support the notion that PKCtheta and CaN are sufficient to regulate apoptosis through FasL expression.
Wallerian degeneration and dying-back pathology are two well-known cellular pathways capable of regulating the breakdown and loss of axonal and synaptic compartments of neurons in vivo. However, the underlying mechanisms and molecular triggers of these pathways remain elusive. Here, we show that loss of translation elongation factor eEF1A2 expression in lower motor neurons and skeletal muscle fibres in homozygous Wasted mice triggered a dying-back neuropathy. Synaptic loss at the neuromuscular junction occurred in advance of axonal pathology and by a mechanism morphologically distinct from Wallerian degeneration. Dying-back pathology in Wasted mice was accompanied by reduced expression levels of the zinc finger protein ZPR1, as found in other dying-back neuropathies such as spinal muscular atrophy. Surprisingly, experimental nerve lesion revealed that Wallerian degeneration was significantly delayed in homozygous Wasted mice; morphological assessment revealed that approximately 80% of neuromuscular junctions in deep lumbrical muscles at 24 h and approximately 50% at 48 h had retained motor nerve terminals following tibial nerve lesion. This was in contrast to wild-type and heterozygous Wasted mice where < 5% of neuromuscular junctions had retained motor nerve terminals at 24 h post-lesion. These data show that eEF1A2 expression is required to prevent the initiation of dying-back pathology at the neuromuscular junction in vivo. In contrast, loss of eEF1A2 expression significantly inhibited the initiation and progression of Wallerian degeneration in vivo. We conclude that loss of eEF1A2 expression distinguishes mechanisms underlying dying-back pathology from those responsible for Wallerian degeneration in vivo and suggest that eEF1A2-dependent cascades may provide novel molecular targets to manipulate neurodegenerative pathways in lower motor neurons.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) has a biphasic clinical phenotype with failure to thrive in the neonatal period followed by hyperphagia and severe obesity commencing in childhood among other endocrinological and neurobehavioral abnormalities. The syndrome results from loss of function of several clustered, paternally expressed genes in chromosome 15q11-q13. PWS is assumed to result from a hypothalamic defect, but the pathophysiological basis of the disorder is unknown. We hypothesize that a fetal developmental abnormality in PWS leads to the neonatal phenotype, whereas the adult phenotype results from a failure in compensatory mechanisms. To address this hypothesis and better characterize the neonatal failure to thrive phenotype during postnatal life, we studied a transgenic deletion PWS (TgPWS) mouse model that shares similarities with the first stage of the human syndrome. TgPWS mice have fetal and neonatal growth retardation associated with profoundly reduced insulin and glucagon levels. Consistent with growth retardation, TgPWS mice have deregulated liver expression of IGF system components, as revealed by quantitative gene expression studies. Lethality in TgPWS mice appears to result from severe hypoglycemia after postnatal d 2 after depletion of liver glycogen stores. Consistent with hypoglycemia, TgPWS mice appear to have increased fat oxidation. Ghrelin levels increase in TgPWS reciprocally with the falling glucose levels, suggesting that the rise in ghrelin reported in PWS patients may be secondary to a perceived energy deficiency. Together, the data reveal defects in endocrine pancreatic function as well as glucose and hepatic energy metabolism that may underlie the neonatal phenotype of PWS.
With the growth of resistance to overused insecticides, vector management has become highly problematic. Hence more concentration has been focused on botanicals. Therefore our present study was aimed to evaluate the toxicity of compounds, aristolochic acid I and aristolochic acid II from the methanol extract of Aristolochia indica L. (Aristolochiaceae) leaves on larvae of Anopheles stephensi L. (Diptera: Culicidae) employing World Health Organization standard larvicide testing procedures. The soxhlet extraction was carried out using polar solvent, methanol. The isolated toxic compounds were purified through RP-HPLC. The FTIR spectroscopic studies revealed different peak values with functional groups in the mixed compounds (AA-I and AA- II). These two aristolochic acids were further studied through (13)C and (1)HNMR analysis with confirmed by structures. Bioassay-guided fractionation through flash chromatography lead to the isolation of two larvicidal compounds namely aristolochic acid I and II. In these bioassays, the larvae were exposed to concentrations of 100, 250, 500,750 and 1000 ppm for each compound. Between the two, AA-I exerted no significant toxicity difference (P < 0.05) on mosquito larvae with LC(5)(0)- 171.3, 209.8, 269.1, 502.3 ppm and LC(9)(0)-751.6, 963.8, 972.7, 990.8 ppm compared to AA-II with LC(5)(0)-134.8, 166.7, 240.4,543.2 ppm and LC(9)(0)- 636.7, 792.5, 990.8, 986.2 ppm against first, second, third and fourth instars, respectively. Further, the isolated compounds were severely affecting the mosquito gut. From the results, A. indica toxic compounds could be considered as one of the influential applicant to bring about useful botanicals so as to prevent the resurrection of mosquito vectors.
OBJECTIVE: To assess obstetric outcomes in women in their second pregnancy after preeclampsia in the first pregnancy. METHODS: We utilized population-based birth registry data of Kuopio University Hospital to investigate pregnancy outcome measures in 123 nonpreeclamptic parous women with prior preeclampsia and 21 women with repeat preeclampsia in their second pregnancy. The general obstetric population was used as a reference group in logistic regression. RESULTS: The development of recurrent preeclampsia in 15% of women is associated with adverse neonatal outcomes. A first preeclamptic pregnancy may offer protection against disease recurrence and a history of preeclampsia has no significant effects on birth weight, fetal distress, or prematurity rate. However, they have a higher rate of pregnancy-induced hypertension and abdominal deliveries, and, therefore, a greater proportion of newborns are referred to neonatal units for observation. CONCLUSIONS: Women in whom preeclampsia does not recur have good obstetric outcomes in their second delivery, almost comparable to that in the general obstetric population. A genetic susceptibility to preeclampsia alone has minor effects on pregnancy outcome in a second pregnancy if the disease does not recur.
Proteolytic cleavage of the structural proteins is an important part of the maturation process for most bacteriophages and other viruses. In the double-stranded DNA bacteriophages this cleavage is associated with DNA packaging, capsid expansion, and scaffold removal. To understand the role of protein cleavage in the expansion of bacteriophages P2 and P4, we have experimentally cleaved P4 procapsids produced by overexpression of the capsid and scaffolding proteins. The cleavage leads to particle expansion and scaffold removal in vitro. The resulting expanded capsid has a thin-shelled structure similar, but not identical, to that of mature virions.
Penicillium verrucosum, P. nordicum and Aspergillus carbonarius are three important ochratoxin A producing species. P. verrucosum is in addition able to produce citrinin. It has been shown earlier that P. nordicum is adapted to NaCl rich environments like salt rich dry cured foods or even salines. In this organism, the biosynthesis of ochratoxin A plays an adaptive role in this habitat. P. verrucosum generally can be found on cereals, but occasionally also on salt rich dry cured foods. In contrast A. carbonarius usually cannot be found in NaCl rich environments, but it occurs in another environment with high concentration of solutes, e.g., in sugar rich substrates like grapes and grape juices. Usually osmotic challenging conditions activate the HOG MAP kinase signal cascade, which in turn activates various osmo-regulated genes. In the current analysis, it could be demonstrated that in case of P. nordicum and P. verrucosum the NaCl induced production of ochratoxin A is correlated to the phosphorylation status of the HOG MAP kinase. Just the opposite was true for A. carbonarius. In this case, also higher amounts of NaCl in the medium lead to an increased phosphorylation status of HOG, but no increase in ochratoxin biosynthesis was observed. In contrast to the Penicillia, higher NaCl concentrations lead to a rapid cessation of growth by A. carbonarius. High glucose concentrations have much less impact on growth and the phosphorylation of HOG.
OBJECTIVE: Long non coding RNA (LncRNA) urothelial carcinoma-associated 1 (UCA1) is an oncogene in breast cancer. However, the detailed mechanism has not been fully revealed. This study explored whether UCA1 can directly interact with miR-143, a tumor suppressor in breast cancer and whether the UCA1-miR-143 axis is involved in regulation of cancer cell growth and apoptosis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: miRNA microarray was performed to identify the most dysregulated miRNAs between tumor and adjacent normal tissues of breast cancer. QRT-PCR analysis was performed to assess the expression of UCA1 and miR-143. The binding between UCA1 and miR-143 was verified using dual luciferase and RNA binding protein immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay. MTT assay and flow cytometry analysis were performed to study the role of UCA1-miR-143 axis in cell proliferation, cell cycle and apoptosis. RESULTS: UC1 was significantly upregulated, while miR-143 was significantly downregulated in the tumor tissues than in the adjacent normal tissues. There are direct interactions between miR-143 and the miRNA recognition sites of UCA1. UCA1 is present in Ago2-containing RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), through association with miR-143. Through downregulating miR-143, UCA1 can modulate breast cancer cell growth and apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: UCA1 can directly interact with miR-143, lower its expression and affect its downstream regulation. Therefore, the UCA1-miR-143 axis constitutes a part of the oncogenic role of UCA1 in breast cancer.
2,3-Dinorprostaglandins (dinor-PGs) have been regarded as beta-oxidation products of arachidonic-acid-derived prostaglandins, but their biological activities in mammalian cells remain unclear. On the other hand, C18 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), such as gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), have various biological activities, and dinor-PGs are speculated to be biosynthesized from GLA. Here, we synthesized dinor-PGs that may possibly be derived from GLA and examined their activities towards peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). Dinor-PGD1 (1) and its epimer 13-epi-dinor-PGD1 (epi-1) were found to be dual agonists for PPARalpha/gamma, whereas PGD2 derived from arachidonic acid is selective for PPARgamma. Thus, GLA-derived dinor-PGs may have unique biological roles.
Hsp90 inhibitor geldanamycin and parthenolide have been shown to induce apoptosis in cancer cells. However, the combined effect of geldanamycin and parthenolide on epithelial ovarian cancer cells has not been studied. In respect of cell death process, we investigated the promoting effect of parthenolide on geldanamycin-induced apoptosis in the human epithelial ovarian carcinoma cell lines OVCAR-3 and SK-OV-3. Geldanamycin induced a decrease in Bid, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL and survivin protein levels; an increase in Bax and tumour suppressor p53 levels; loss of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential; cytochrome c release; activation of caspases (-8, -9 and -3); cleavage of PARP-1; and increase in the reactive oxygen species formation. Parthenolide enhanced geldanamycin-induced changes in the apoptosis-related protein levels, reactive oxygen species formation, nuclear damage and cell death. The combined effect was inhibited by the addition of oxidant scavengers. The results suggest that parthenolide may potentiate the apoptotic effect of geldanamycin on ovarian carcinoma cell lines by the activation of the caspase-8- and Bid-dependent pathway and the mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathway. The apoptosis-promoting effect seems to be mediated by the stimulatory effect on the formation of reactive oxygen species.
Urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) plays a central role in many aspects of cellular regulation, such as fibrinolysis, cell migration, and metastasis. The uPA induction by inflammatory stimuli such as IL-1, TNFalpha, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been reported in a number of human cells. We examined the effects of LPS on uPA expression in human PC-3 prostatic cancer cells that express uPA in a conditioned medium. LPS increased the uPA accumulation in PC-3 cells, whereas IL-1, IL-6, and TNFalpha did not. Northern blot analysis revealed that the peak induction of uPA mRNA occurred 5 hours after LPS stimulation. A protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, amplified the LPS-induced uPA mRNA, suggesting that LPS induces uPA by activating the gene expression in which de novo protein synthesis is not necessary.
Periphyton mats are an important component of many wetland ecosystems, performing a range of vital ecosystem functions, including nitrogen fixation. The composition and integrity of these mats are affected by nutrient additions, which might result in changes in their function. The overall objective of this study was to investigate the distribution of nifH sequences in floating periphyton mats collected along a nutrient gradient in the Florida Everglades. Distribution of nifH clone libraries indicated nutrient enrichment selected primarily for sequences branching deeply within the heterocystous cyanobacteria and within a novel group of cyanobacteria; sequences from low-nutrient sites were broadly distributed, with no clear dominance of sequences associated with heterocystous and nonheterocystous cyanobacteria and alpha-, gamma-, and delta-proteobacteria. The dominance of heterocystous cyanobacteria in nutrient-enriched sites and the lack of clear dominance by heterocystous cyanobacteria is consistent with previously reported diurnal cycles of nitrogen fixation rates in these systems. Sequences clustering with those harbored by methanotrophs were also identified; sequences from nutrient-impacted and transition regions clustered with those characteristic of type II methanotrophs, and sequences from oligotrophic regions clustered with type I methanotrophs.
OBJECTIVE: To assess whether public understandings of inherited predisposition to colorectal cancer may undermine preparedness to respond to preventive messages. METHODS: Structured in-depth interviews with 31 women and men, aged 50 years and over. RESULTS: Most participants viewed genetic factors as prompts for taking preventive measures rather than as reasons for fatalism and inaction. They were optimistic about the potential benefits of new developments in cancer prevention and treatment. CONCLUSIONS: There was little evidence of perceived genetic determinism in relation to colorectal cancer, but there were some significant misunderstandings about causes, prevention and treatment. These findings have important implications for public health communications about the contribution of genetics to cancer causation.
Methyl parathion (MP), an organophosphorus pesticide used worldwide, has been associated with a wide spectrum of toxic effects on organisms in the environment. This study set out to analyze the alteration of protein profiles in MP-exposed zebrafish (Danio rerio) brain and find the proteins responsive to MP toxicity. Zebrafish were subjected to 1, 3 and 5mg/L MP and the proteomic changes in their brains were revealed using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Six protein spots were observed to be significantly changed by MP exposure. Among these, 4 spots were down-regulated, while 2 spots were up-regulated. These altered spots were excised from the gels and identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry and database searching. The results indicate that these proteins were involved in binding, catalysis, regulation of energy metabolism and cell structure. These data may provide novel biomarkers for the evaluation of MP contamination and useful insights for understanding the mechanisms of MP toxicity.
A novel second-generation CCR5-tropic HIV-1 recombinant virus (XC2014EU09) was identified here, which was isolated from a HIV-positive man who had sex with men (MSM) in Sichuan, China. Phylogenic analyses showed that XC2014EU09 was composed of two well-established circulating recombinant forms (CRF01_AE and CRF07_BC). Different from the other four reported CRF01_AE/CRF07_BC recombinant forms, three recombinant breakpoints of XC2014EU09 with four fragments were observed in the vpr, env, and nef genes, respectively, as follows: ICRF01_AE (636-5,843 nt), IICRF07_BC (5,844-8,393 nt), IIICRF01_AE (8,394-9,119 nt), and IVCRF07_BC (9,120-9,600 nt). The emergence of CRF01_AE/CRF07_BC recombinant strain indicates the increasing complexity of the HIV-1 epidemic among the MSM group in China.
Kinetoplastid protozoa contain a unique microbody organelle called the glycosome. Several important metabolic pathways are compartmentalized within the glycosome that are found in the cytoplasm of higher eukaryotes. We have previously reported the identification of a Leishmania donovani cell line called gim1-1, in which several normally glycosomal proteins are partially mislocalized to the cytoplasm. The GIM1 gene complements the defect and restores import of proteins to the glycosome. Here we demonstrate that GIM1 encodes an integral membrane protein of the glycosome. We also report that the mutant gim1-1 allele behaves as a dominant negative mutation. Introducing the gim1-1 allele extrachromasomally led to mislocalization of a glycosomal reporter protein even in wild-type cells. Gene disruption experiments in heterozygous GIM1/gim1-1 cells showed that when the mutant gim1-1 allele was lost, cells re-established normal glycosomal protein localization. Interestingly, no disruptions of the wild-type allele were obtained. These data indicate that a dominant negative mutation in the GIM1 gene is the sole genetic lesion responsible for the glycosomal defects in gim1-1, and suggest that GIM1 is an essential gene in Leishmania.
The surprising discovery of a whole-genome duplication in the otherwise compact genome of Paramecium tetraurelia displays the early forces driving gene retention and loss.
We studied an experimental horizontal subsurface-flow planted sand filter in Kodijarve, Estonia. We measured the microbial biomass, nitrogen immobilization, potential nitrification, soil respiration, multiple carbon source utilization patterns of the microbial consortia of the soil samples, the carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus content of the soil samples, the water quality and physicochemical indicators in water sampling wells as well as emissions of CO2, N2, NO2, and CH4 from the two beds (the dry bed and the wet bed) in the wetland. The potential nitrification of the upper layer of the dry bed could not be attributed primarily to autotrophic nitrification, or the nitrifying bacteria in this layer could be facultative heterotrophs, whereas autotrophic nitrification is predominant in the upper layer of the wet bed. It also was found that changing aeration conditions in the lower layer of the dry bed have resulted in a lower diversity of the microbial community and led to a relative depletion of easily degradable soil carbon resources.
Vaccinia DNA topoisomerase (vTopo) catalyzes highly specific nucleophilic substitution at a single phosphodiester linkage in the pentapyrimidine recognition sequence 5'-(C/T)+5C4+C3+T+2T+1p \N-1 using an active-site tyrosine nucleophile, thereby expelling a 5' hydroxyl leaving group of the DNA. Here, we report the energetic effects of subtle modifications to the major-groove hydrogen-bond donor and acceptor groups of the 3'-GGGAA-5' consensus sequence of the nonscissile strand in the context of duplexes in which the scissile strand length was progressively shortened. We find that the major-groove substitutions become energetically more damaging as the scissile strand is shortened from 32 to 24 and 18 nucleotides, indicating that enzyme interactions with the duplex region present in the 32-mer but not the 24- or 18-mer weaken specific interactions with the DNA major groove. Regardless of strand length, the destabilizing effects of the major-groove substitutions increase as the reaction proceeds from the Michaelis complex to the transition state for DNA cleavage and, finally, to the phosphotyrosine-DNA covalent complex. These length-dependent anticooperative interactions involving the DNA major groove and duplex regions 3' to the cleavage site indicate that the major-groove binding energy is fully realized late during the reaction for full-length substrates but that smaller more flexible duplex substrates feel these interactions earlier along the reaction coordinate. Such anticooperative binding interactions may play a role in strand exchange and supercoil unwinding activities of the enzyme.
Viral immediate-early (IE) genes are the first class of viral genes expressed during primary infection or reactivation from latency. They usually encode regulatory proteins that play crucial roles in viral life cycle. In a previous study, four regions in the KSHV genome were found to be actively transcribed in the immediate-early stage of viral reactivation in primary effusion lymphoma cells. Three immediate-early transcripts were characterized in these regions, as follows: mRNAs for ORF50 (KIE-1), ORF-45 (KIE-2), and ORF K4.2 (KIE-3) (F. X. Zhu, T. Cusano, and Y. Yuan, 1999, J. Virol. 73, 5556-5567). In the present study, we further analyzed the expression of genes in these IE regions in BC-1 and BCBL-1 cells. One of the immediate-early regions (KIE-1) that encompasses ORF50 and other genes was intensively studied to establish a detailed transcription map and expression patterns of genes in this region. This study led to identification of several novel IE transcripts in this region. They include a 2.6-kb mRNA which encodes ORF48/ORF29b, a family of transcripts that are complementary to ORF50 mRNA and a novel K8 IE mRNA of 1.5 kb. Together with the IE mRNA for ORF50 which was identified previously, four immediate-early genes have been mapped to KIE-1 region. Therefore, we would designate KIE-1 the major immediate-early region of KSHV. In addition, we showed that transcription of K8 gene is controlled by two promoters, yielding two transcripts, an immediate-early mRNA of 1.5 kb and a delayed-early mRNA of 1.3 kb.
BACKGROUND: DNA vaccine is a new and powerful approach to generate immunological responses against infectious disease and cancer. The T helper type (Th)1 immune response is usually required for generating effective anti-tumor responses. A microparticulate bombardment system can induce an immune response using very low amounts of DNA. Using nozzle aerodynamics, a low pressure gene gun has been developed to decrease the noise associated with high pressure gene guns. Particles are propelled by supersonic flow through this novel nozzle. To test whether this gun could inoculate a DNA vaccine that stimulates an anti-tumor Th1 immune response, we examined the effect of direct delivery of naked DNA (i.e. without any carrier) on the anti-tumor immune response of mice. METHODS: The luciferase reporter plasmid DNA was delivered using a low-pressure biolistic device and expressed in C3H/HeN, BALB/c, and C57BL/6 mice. RESULTS: Plasmid DNA expression was mainly in the epidermis. Noncarrier naked neu DNA vaccine and gold particle-coated neu DNA vaccine (at 1 microg per mouse) had similar anti-tumor effects in C3H mice. However, cytokine profile examination showed the Th1-bias of the response induced by naked DNA vaccine and the Th2-bias of the response induced by coated DNA vaccine. CONCLUSIONS: A shift in the immune response to favour enhanced tumor rejection can be achieved by skin delivery of naked DNA vaccine.
Two types of clones have been isolated from the SW613-S human colon carcinoma cell line. Clones with a high level of amplification of the c-myc gene are tumorigenic in nude mice and can proliferate in chemically defined, serum-free medium, whereas clones with a low level of amplification are nontumorigenic and cannot multiply in defined medium. The expression level of the insulin-like growth factor type 1 (IGF-1) gene is low in tumorigenic clones and undetectable in nontumorigenic clones. Tumorigenic clones produce high levels of IGF-2 (and IGF-binding proteins), compared to nontumorigenic clones. This is the consequence of a differential transcriptional regulation of the IGF-2 gene between the two types of clones. This regulation consists of a modulation of the activity of promoters P3 and P4. Overexpression of the IGF-2 gene is constitutive in tumorigenic clones: it is stably maintained during in vitro propagation of the cells. Tumorigenic cell lines obtained after transfer of c-myc gene copies into the cells of nontumorigenic clones exhibit a high level of expression of the IGF-2 gene when they are grown in vivo, as subcutaneous tumors in nude mice. This high level of expression is lost in most of these cell lines when they are returned to in vitro culture conditions indicating that, in these cells, IGF-2 overexpression is not constitutive but inducible by in vivo growth conditions. We had previously shown that tumorigenic clones use the overproduced IGF-2 as an autocrine growth factor. The results reported here suggest than IGF-2 overexpression has an important role in the tumorigenic phenotype of these cells.
Infected thoracic aortic aneurysm (ITAA) is a relatively rare disease. The diagnosis of ITAA is generally made comprehensively based on symptoms, laboratory data and CT findings. Several series of blood cultures are mandatory to first detect the infecting organism. ITAA is usually suspected as a result of the CT findings. A short-interval CT re-examination is essential to confirm the correct diagnosis. A CT scan commonly demonstrates a rapid enlargement of the aneurismal lumen and soft tissue mass surrounding the aorta. One of the characteristics of ITAA is the presence of several nodular or saccular aneurysms localized in different aortic portions. Patients with ITAA are associated with high incidences of aneurismal rupture due to the aneurysm's abrupt growth. Therefore, ITAAs are associated with both high morbidities and mortalities. The major concerns regarding surgical treatment for ITAA are the control of infection, the resection of whole infected tissue, grafting via an aseptic route and the prevention of recrudescent infection. Therefore, effectual antibiotic therapy is mandatory as the first choice of therapy. Ideally surgical intervention is indicated in patients with a controlled infection. It is essential to excise the whole infected aneurysm and to reconstruct in-situ grafting via an aseptic route. However, urgent surgery is often required in patients with an uncontrolled infection because they have an impending aneurismal rupture. In such cases, an extra-anatomical bypass without cardiopulmonary bypass is applicable. Surgical strategies should therefore be determined on a case-by-case basis because these patients present various clinical courses.
We attempted to find some compounds for the effective delivery of gene constructs into cells and obtained two trispherical dendrimers on the basis of lysine, (Lys)8-(alpha, epsilon-Lys)4-(alpha, epsilon-Lys)2-(alpha, epsilon-Lys)-Ala-NH2 (D1) and (Lys)8-(alpha, epsilon-Lys)4-(alpha, epsilon-Lys)2-(alpha, epsilon-Lys)-Ala-[Lys(Plm)]2-Ala-NH2 (D2), as well as the starburst polymeric derivatives of D1, (pVIm)8-D1 and (pLys)n-D1, containing poly(N-vinylimidazole) and polylysine chains bound at a single point to the dendrimer amino groups. The conditions of dendrimer-plasmid DNA complex formation were studied. The intracellular localization of these complexes and the expression of gene constructs delivered with their help were analyzed in transfection experiments on the HeLa cell cultures of human epithelial carcinoma and on C2C12 mouse myoblasts. It was found that the chemical structure of dendrimer D1 and its derivatives significantly affected the structure and properties of complex. The English version of the paper: Russian Journal of Bioorganic Chemistry, 2004, vol. 30, no. 1; see also http://www.maik.ru.
We have previously reported on the expression of interleukin-4 receptors (IL-4R) on many human epithelial cancer cells; however, the binding characteristics, structure, function, and signal transduction through the IL-4R in cancer cells is not known. IL-4 binding characteristics were determined in human colon carcinoma cell lines by a 125I-IL-4 binding assay, which demonstrated that the HT-29 and WiDr colon cancer cell lines expressed high affinity IL-4R (Kd = 200 pM). Cross-linking experiments revealed a major band of 140 kDa and a broad band at 70 kDa. While the common gamma chain of IL-2R is associated with IL-4R in immune cells and is similar in size to the 70-kDa protein, this chain was not expressed in these colon cancer cells. Interestingly, IL-13, which has many functions similar to IL-4, inhibited 125I-IL-4 binding to both the 140- and 70-kDa molecules. Next, we investigated the mechanism of IL-4-induced signal transduction in colon cancer cells. After stimulation with IL-4, a 170-kDa band was primarily phosphorylated within 1 min of exposure and was identified as insulin receptor substrate-1. In addition, by immunoprecipitation assay, three other phosphorylated bands were identified as JAK1, JAK2, and Tyk2 tyrosine kinases. The phosphorylation of JAK1 and JAK2 was induced by IL-4 stimulation; however, Tyk2 was constitutively phosphorylated, and IL-4 treatment further augmented this phosphorylation. The kinetics and in vitro kinase assays demonstrated that JAK1, JAK2, and Tyk2 were phosphorylated within minutes and that JAK1 and JAK2 were activated after IL-4 exposure. Contrary to observations in immune cells. JAK3 mRNA was neither detected in colon cancer cells nor did IL-4 treatment cause phosphorylation of JAK3. These data indicate that in colon carcinoma cells JAK1, JAK2, Tyk2, and insulin receptor substrate-1 are phosphorylated after IL-4 stimulation. In addition, as is the case in lymphoid cells, IL-4 activated and phosphorylated signal transducers and activators of transcription (IL-4-STAT or STAT-6) protein in both colon cancer cell lines. These results indicate that the IL-4R complex is composed of different subunits in different tissues and shares a component with the IL-13R complex. In addition, we demonstrate for the first time that like its family members (e.g. IL-3 and GM-CSF), IL-4 can phosphorylate and activate JAK-2 kinase.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels prior to liver transplantation (LT) and the development of acute cellular rejection (ACR) within the first year post LT. METHODS: This retrospective study included 275 consecutive LTs performed in 262 patients at Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida over 13 months. A total of 149 patients met the inclusion criteria. The correlations between 25(OH)D levels and the development, severity, and number of biopsy-proven ACR episodes were assessed. RESULTS: The prevalence of 25(OH)D levels <30 ng/mL was 92%. No association was found between pre LT 25(OH)D levels and the diagnosis of ACR (P = .61). Mean +/- SD pre LT 25(OH)D levels were 16.1 +/- 6.8 ng/mL for 48 subjects with no rejection, 16.1 +/- 8.2 ng/mL for those with a mild first episode of ACR (n = 58), and 18.4 +/- 12.4 ng/mL for those who experienced a moderate/severe first ACR (n = 39). However, in a subgroup analysis of patients with 25(OH)D levels <30 ng/mL, there was a statistically significant negative correlation (P = .0252) between 25(OH) D level and the ACR rate. CONCLUSION: Vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency prior to LT was prevalent in our cohort. There was no statistically significant association between low 25(OH)D levels and the diagnosis or severity of ACR or the number of rejection episodes within the first year post LT. However, there was a negative correlation between 25(OH)D levels below 30 ng/mL and the rate of ACR within 1 year post LT.
SwS, based on a statistical analysis of crystallographic structures deposited in the NDB, is designed to provide an exhaustive overview of the solvation of nucleic acid structural elements through the generation of 3D solvent density maps. A first version (v1.0) of this web service focuses on the interaction of DNA, RNA and hybrid base pairs linked by two or three hydrogen bonds with water, cations and/or anions. Data provided by SwS are updated on a weekly basis and can be used by: (i) those involved in molecular dynamics simulation studies for validation purposes; (ii) crystallographers for help in the interpretation of solvent density maps; and all those involved in (iii) drug design and, more generally, in (iv) nucleic acid structural studies. SwS provides also statistical data related to the frequency of occurrence of different types of base pairs in crystallographic structures and the conformation of the involved nucleotides. This web service has been designed to allow a maximum of flexibility in terms of queries and has also been developed with didactic considerations in mind. AVAILABILITY: http://www-ibmc.u-strasbg.fr/arn/sws.html
(1) The purpose of the present study was to examine whether cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19) in carriers of the CYP2C19*17 allele is inhibited in vivo by oral contraceptives (OC). (2) Retrospective CYP2C19 phenotyping according to omeprazole : 5-OH-omeprazole molar 3 h plasma metabolic ratios (MR) from a population (n = 222) genotyped as CYP2C19*1/*1, CYP2C19*1/*17 and CYP2C19*17/*17 was analysed. Furthermore, 30 women genotyped as CYP2C19*1/*1 (n = 11), CYP2C19*1/*17 (n = 11) and CYP2C19*17/*17 (n = 8) were prospectively CYP2C19 phenotyped during the administration of OC and again after a minimum 5 days break from OC. (3) We found a significantly higher MR in the CYP2C19*1/*1 genotype group that took OC (n = 48) compared with women who did not take OC (n = 31; geometric mean 1.37 vs. 0.83, respectively; P < 0.05). However, in the CYP2C19*1/*17 genotype group, the geometric means of the MR in the 37 women taking OC and the 20 women not taking OC were 0.67 and 0.46, respectively (P > 0.05). In the CYP2C19*1/*1 panel of the prospective cross-over study, we found a significantly higher MR while women were taking the OC compared with the MR during the OC break (geometric mean 1.21 vs. 0.91, respectively; P = 0.0123). However, in the CYP2C19*1/*17 group, the geometric means of the MR with and without OC were 0.77 and 0.65, respectively, compared with 1.05 and 0.79, respectively, in the CYP2C19*17/*17 group (P = 0.20 and 0.17, respectively). (4) In conclusion, we have shown that OC intake inhibits CYP2C19 in homozygous carriers of the CYP2C19 wild type but that the inhibition is not significant in heterozygous and homozygous carriers of the CYP2C19*17 allele.
Sphingosine and sphingosine-1-phosphate, metabolites of membrane sphingolipids, have recently been shown to stimulate release of calcium from internal sources and to increase proliferation of quiescent Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts (Zhang, H., Desai, N. N., Olivera, A., Seki, T., Brooker, G., and Spiegel, S. (1991) J. Cell Biol. 114, 155-167). The present study demonstrates that mitogenic concentrations of sphingosine induce early increases in sphingosine-1-phosphate levels which precede the increase in the potent mitogen, phosphatidic acid. Sphingosine-1-phosphate itself induces a more rapid increase in phosphatidic acid, thus suggesting that it may mediate the effects of sphingosine on phosphatidic acid accumulation. The concentration dependence for the formation of phosphatidic acid induced by sphingosine-1-phosphate correlates with its effect on DNA synthesis. Similar to sphingosine, sphingosine-1-phosphate also stimulates the activity of phospholipase D, although a significant effect is observed at a much lower concentration. However, in contrast to previous reports with sphingosine, sphingosine-1-phosphate does not inhibit the phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolase activity in cell homogenates. Thus, in addition to its effect on mobilization of calcium, sphingosine-1-phosphate can increase the level of phosphatidic acid, most likely via activation of phospholipase D. We suggest that sphingosine-1-phosphate mediates the effect of sphingosine on phosphatidic acid accumulation in Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts and may regulate cellular proliferation by affecting multiple transmembrane signaling pathways.
A procedure has been described for the preparation of T and non-T lymphocyte populations. The purine nucleotide contents were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. In healthy subjects the pattern was shown to be different in the two cell populations. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis the findings as compared with the healthy subjects were as follows; in T cells the RA patients showed a slight decrease in di- and tri-phosphates, a more significant decrease of NAD and an increase of AMP. The changes in non-T cells of the RA patients were highly significant and can be summarized as a generalized reduction of all nucleotides, except IMP which tends to increase, and GMP which remains constant. The variations observed in nucleotide content do not involve alterations of some parameters, such as the adenylates/guanylates, the ATP/ADP and GTP/GDP ratios and the energy charges for adenylates and guanylates, regarded as an index of cell energy and viability. It is possible that disturbances of purine metabolism, revealed through the determination of purine contents of lymphocytes, precede immunological events and could be useful in the study of immunologic disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of nutrient supply, plasma metabolites, and nutritional status of sows during the transition from gestation to lactation on performance of piglets during the colostral period and throughout lactation. Forty second-parity sows were fed 1 of 4 gestation diets containing a different quantity of dietary fiber (171 to 404 g/kg of DM) from mating until d 108 of gestation. From d 108 of gestation until weaning (d 28 of lactation), sows were fed 1 of 5 lactation diets with a different quantity of dietary fat [3 or 8% with different proportions of medium- (MCFA) and long-chain fatty acids (LCFA)]. Blood was obtained by jugular venipuncture on d 108 and 112 of gestation and on d 1 of lactation, and concentrations of plasma glucose, NEFA, lactate, acetate, propionate, butyrate, and fatty acids were analyzed. Piglet growth and mortality were noted throughout lactation. Piglet mortality during the colostral period (0 to 24 h) was affected by the lactation diets and was positively related to sow backfat (d 108) and plasma lactate (d 112) and negatively related to mean piglet birth weight (P < 0.05). Mean piglet live BW gain (LWG) was recorded in the periods 0 to 24 h, 7 to 10 d, 14 to 17 d, and 17 to 28 d relative to parturition as indirect measures of colostrum yield (0 to 24 h), milk yield in early lactation (d 7 to 10), and at peak lactation (d 14 to 17 and d 17 to 28). Effects of gestation and lactation diets on studied sow traits were tested on selected days during the transition period and the next lactation, and tested statistically on separate days. The LWG in the colostral period was positively correlated with mean piglet birth weight (P < 0.001), plasma concentrations of propionate and MCFA (P < 0.05), and plasma acetate and butyrate (P < 0.1) on d 1 of lactation. The LWG in early lactation was inversely correlated with plasma lactate on d 108 (P < 0.05), plasma glucose on d 112, and backfat thickness on d 108 (P < 0.10). The LWG at peak lactation was positively correlated with MCFA intake of the sow on d 113 to 115 and backfat thickness on d 108 during the transition, and negatively correlated with intake of LCFA and ME intake on d 108 to 112 (P < 0.05). In conclusion, feeding and body condition of sows during the transition from gestation to lactation is important for neonatal piglet survival, lactation performance of sows, and piglet growth during the next lactation.
BACKGROUND: Despite recent progress in the research of nanoparticles (NPs) spanning in many scientific fields, study of NPs in dentistry is limited. This triggered us to investigate the effect of TiO2 NPs on the drug-sensitivity of oral squamous cell carcinoma and inflammation of human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs). MATERIALS AND METHODS: The number of viable HGF cells was determined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide method. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Contamination with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was assayed by the endotoxin assay kit. Intracellular uptake and distribution of TiO2 NPs were assessed by transmission electron microscopy. RESULTS: TiO2 NPs (0.05-3.2 mM) did not affect HGF cell viability, although TiO2 NPs clusters were dose-dependently incorporated into the vacuoles of cells. Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) (3 ng/ml) stimulated the secretion of PGE2 into the culture medium by HGF cells. TiO2 NPs also induced PGE2 production, in synergy with IL-1beta. Since only a minor amount of LPS was detected in TiO2 NPs, the enhanced production of PGE2 was not simply due to LPS contamination. CONCLUSION: The present study demonstrates, for the first time to our knowledge, that TiO2 NPs at concentrations higher than 0.2 mM exert an pro-inflammatory action against HGF cells, regardless of the presence or absence of IL-1beta.
The complex network of etiological factors, signals and tissue responses involved in chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) cannot be successfully targeted by a single therapeutic agent. Multimodal approaches to the therapy of CP/CPPS have been and are currently being tested, as in the frame of complex diagnostic-therapeutic phenotypic approaches such as the urinary, psychosocial, organ-specific, infection, neurological and muscle tenderness (UPOINTS) system. In this study, the effect of combination therapy on 914 patients diagnosed, phenotyped and treated in a single specialized prostatitis clinic was analyzed. Patients received alpha-blockers, Serenoa repens (S. repens) extracts combined or not with supplements (lycopene and selenium) and, in the presence of documented or highly suspected infection, antibacterial agents. Combination treatment induced marked and significant improvements of National Institutes of Health Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index (NIH-CPSI) prostatitis symptom scores, International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) sexual dysfunction scores, urinary peak flow rates and bladder voiding efficiency. These improvements, assessed after a 6-month course of therapy, were sustained throughout a follow-up period of 18 months. A clinically appreciable reduction of >/=6 points of the total NIH-CPSI score was achieved in 77.5% of patients subjected to combination therapy for a period of 6 months. When the patients were divided in two cohorts, depending on the diagnosis of CP/CPPS [inflammatory (IIIa) vs. non-inflammatory (IIIb) subtypes], significant improvements of all signs and symptoms of the syndrome were observed in both cohorts at the end of therapy. Intergroup comparison showed that patients affected by the IIIa sub-category of CP/CPPS showed more severe signs and symptoms (NIH-CPSI total, pain and quality of life impact scores, and Qmax) at baseline when compared with IIIb patients. However, the improvement of symptoms after therapy was significantly more pronounced in IIIa patients when compared with IIIb patients. In contrast to current opinion, the evidence emerging from the present investigation suggests that the inflammatory and non-inflammatory sub-categories of CP/CPPS may represent two distinct pathological conditions or, alternatively, two different stages of the same condition. In conclusion, a simple protocol based on alpha-blockers, S. repens extracts and supplements and antibacterial agents, targeting the urinary, organ specific and infection domains of UPOINTS, may induce a clinically appreciable improvement of the signs and symptoms of CP/CPPS in a considerable percentage of patients. In patients not responding sufficiently to such therapy, second-line agents (antidepressants, anxiolytics, muscle relaxants, 5-phosphodiesterase inhibitors and others) may be administered in order to achieve a satisfactory therapeutic response.
Dopaminergic innervation of the rat locus coeruleus (LC) was immunohistochemically studied by using monoclonal antibody directed against dopamine (DA) at the light- and electron-microscopic levels. A dense plexus of DA-immunoreactive (IR) varicose fibers was found not only in the cell body area of the LC but also in the dendritic area. Three hundred and forty DA-IR terminal boutons were observed. They were distributed in a wide range of diameters of 0.1-1.8 microns but most of them were large (mean value: 0.98 micron). Sixty-nine percent formed an asymmetric synapse. There were many axo-spinous connections. Small dendrites less than 0.3 micron in diameter displaying synaptic specialization were mostly dendritic spines (75%). Most of the target dendrites seemed to be noradrenergic in nature. It is suggested that dopaminergic innervation may play a powerful role in control mechanisms of activity of NA-containing neurons of the LC.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) is considered as an attractive drug target for neuropathic pain treatments. The hierarchical virtual screening approach for identifying novel scaffolds of mGluR1 allosteric modulators was performed using a homology model built with the dopamine D3 crystal structure as template. The mGluR1 mutagenesis data, conserved amino acid sequences across class A and class C GPCRs, and previously reported multiple sequence alignments of class C GPCRs to the rhodopsin template, were employed for the sequence alignment to overcome difficulties of model generation with low sequence identity of mGluR1 and dopamine D3. The structures refined by molecular dynamics simulations were employed for docking of Asinex commercial libraries after hierarchical virtual screening with pharmacophore and naive Bayesian models. Five of 35 compounds experimentally evaluated using a calcium mobilization assay exhibited micromolar activities (IC50) with chemotype novelty that demonstrated the validity of our methods. A hierarchical structure and ligand-based virtual screening approach with homology model of class C GPCR based on dopamine D3 class A GPCR structure was successfully performed and applied to discover novel negative mGluR1 allosteric modulators.
We analyzed the cost-effectiveness of all Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs) submitted for biologicals in Europe from 1995 to 2009 by comparing two regulatory scenarios: full regulation (PSUR reporting) and limited regulation (no PSUR reporting, but all other parts of the pharmacovigilance framework remain in place). During this period, PSUR reporting resulted in the detection of 2 out of a total of 24 urgent safety issues for biologicals: (i) distant spread of botulinum toxin and (ii) edema/fluid collection associated with off-label use of dibotermin-alfa. We used Markov-chain life tables to calculate costs and health effects of PSURs. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of full regulation (PSUR reporting) vs. limited regulation (no PSUR reporting) for the base-case scenario was \[euro]342,110 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. It is possible to assess the cost-effectiveness of regulatory requirements using the same methods as those used in assessing the cost-effectiveness of medical interventions.
OBJECTIVE: Although one-third of cancer patients are perceived to have a need for psychological support based on the percentage of mental disorders, little is known about the actual utilization of psychological care in cancer. We aimed to assess cancer patients' reported use of psychological care and its correlates in a large, representative sample. METHODS: In a multicenter, cross-sectional study in Germany, 4020 cancer patients (mean age 58 years, 51% women) were evaluated. We obtained self-reports of use of psychotherapy and psychological counseling. We measured distress with the Distress Thermometer, symptoms of depression with the Patient Health Questionnaire, anxiety with the Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale, and social support with the Illness-specific Social Support Scale. In a subsample of 2141, we evaluated the presence of a mental disorder using the Composite International Diagnostic Interview. RESULTS: In total, 28.9% (95% confidence interval 27.4%-30.4%) reported having used psychotherapy or psychological counseling or both because of distress due to cancer. Independent correlates of utilization included age (odds ratio [OR] = 0.97 per year], sex (male, OR = 0.55), social support (OR = 0.96), symptoms of depression (OR = 1.04) and anxiety (OR = 1.08), the diagnosis of a mental disorder (OR = 1.68), and a positive attitude toward psychosocial support (OR = 1.27). Less than half of those currently diagnosed with a mental disorder reported having taken up psychological support offers. CONCLUSION: Special efforts should be made to reach populations that report low utilization of psychological care in spite of having a need for support.
BACKGROUND: Dictyostelium, an amoeboid motile cell, harbors several paralogous Sec7 genes that encode members of three distinct subfamilies of the Sec7 superfamily of Guanine nucleotide exchange factors. Among them are proteins of the GBF/BIG family present in all eukaryotes. The third subfamily represented with three members in D. discoideum is the cytohesin family that has been thought to be metazoan specific. Cytohesins are characterized by a Sec7 PH tandem domain and have roles in cell adhesion and migration. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Dictyostelium SecG exhibits highest homologies to the cytohesins. It harbors at its amino terminus several ankyrin repeats that are followed by the Sec7 PH tandem domain. Mutants lacking SecG show reduced cell-substratum adhesion whereas cell-cell adhesion that is important for development is not affected. Accordingly, multicellular development proceeds normally in the mutant. During chemotaxis secG(-) cells elongate and migrate in a directed fashion towards cAMP, however speed is moderately reduced. SIGNIFICANCE: The data indicate that SecG is a relevant factor for cell-substrate adhesion and reveal the basic function of a cytohesin in a lower eukaryote.
To examine the relationship between myocardial verapamil content (MVC) and acute effects in humans, coronary sinus catheterization was used in 22 patients to determine myocardial uptake of verapamil after bolus intravenous (i.v.) verapamil (4 mg) injection. Verapamil-induced effects on hemodynamic and electrophysiologic parameters were measured simultaneously and correlated with MVC per unit baseline coronary sinus blood flow (MVC:F). Myocardial uptake of verapamil was rapid: peak MVC (1.2 +/- 0.2% of injected dose) occurred at 5.4 +/- 0.4 min; at 30 min, residual MVC was 71.1 +/- 3.4% of maximum. Peak MVC:F in individual patients was inversely related to the extent of coronary artery disease (p less than 0.005) but not to left ventricular (LV) systolic function. Verapamil produced significant (p less than 0.001) early reductions in arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance (SVR); cardiac index (CI) increased, left ventricular (LV) positive dP/dt was unchanged. Verapamil prolonged (p less than 0.01) PR and AH intervals (maximum at 12-18 min) and atrioventricular (AV) nodal effective and functional refractory periods (ERP, FRP) (maximum at 30 min). In individual patients, the extent of changes in AH intervals (r = 0.69; p less than 0.05) and LV dP/dt (r = 0.62; p less than 0.05) correlated with peak MVC:F. We conclude that after i.v. injection, verapamil uptake by the human myocardium is rapid and more extensive in patients with minor coronary artery disease. Despite the hysteresis between MVC and drug effects, MCV is a determinant of inotropic and electrophysiologic effects of verapamil.
p18INK4C, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, is a homologue of p15INK4B and p16INK4A which are frequently altered in a variety of malignancies. We searched for structural alterations of the p18INK4C gene in 44 adult T-cell leukaemias (ATLs), 101 non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs), two polyclonal B-cell proliferations, seven ATL cell lines and seven leukaemia/lymphoma cell lines, by Southern blot and polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analyses. No genomic alterations of the p18INK4C gene were found in any of the samples. By RT-PCR, p18INK4C was not expressed in three of five ATL cell lines, whereas it was expressed in all the non-ATL leukaemia/lymphoma cell lines. Tax did not inhibit the expression of p18INK4C in tax-expressing Jurkat cells.
Osteoporosis is a major health problem in the aging population worldwide. Cross-sectional and retrospective evidence indicates that tea consumption may be a promising approach in mitigating bone loss and in reducing risk of osteoporotic fractures among older adults. Tea polyphenols enhance osteoblastogenesis and suppress osteoclastogenesis in vitro. Animal studies reveal that intake of tea polyphenols have pronounced positive effects on bone as shown by higher bone mass and trabecular bone volume, number, and thickness and lower trabecular separation via increasing bone formation and inhibition of bone resorption, resulting in greater bone strength. These osteoprotective effects appear to be mediated through antioxidant or antiinflammatory pathways along with their downstream signaling mechanisms. A short-term clinical trial of green tea polyphenols has translated the findings from ovariectomized animals to postmenopausal osteopenic women through evaluation of bioavailability, safety, bone turnover markers, muscle strength, and quality of life. For future studies, preclinical animal studies to optimize the dose of tea polyphenols for maximum osteoprotective efficacy and a follow-up short-term dose-response trial in postmenopausal osteopenic women are necessary to inform the design of randomized controlled studies in at-risk populations. Advanced imaging technology should also contribute to determining the effective dose of tea polyphenols in achieving better bone mass, microarchitecture integrity, and bone strength, which are critical steps for translating the putative benefit of tea consumption in osteoporosis management into clinical practice and dietary guidelines.
4-Hydroxynonenal (4HNE), generated during polyunsaturated fatty acid oxidation, is present in atherosclerotic lesions. As 4HNE is able to react with phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), we investigated, using AC polarography, whether it may alter the physico-chemical state of a condensed PE-containing phospholipid monolayer and its interaction with apoA-I. The stability of a phospholipid monolayer relative to potential (around the potential of zero charge) is dependent on lipid composition (PE>PC>PE/PC). ApoA-I insertion into PE/PC monolayer is easier than in PC monolayer. Pre-treatment of PE/PC monolayer by 4HNE does not alter monolayer stability, but decreases apo A-I insertion into the monolayer.
Liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (LC-MS/APCI) with reversed- and chiral phases was used for separation of triacylglycerols (TAG) from protozoan and mold. This study describes the separation and identification of odd numbered chains of regioisomers and enantiomers of triacylglycerols from different natural sources, i.e., the protozoan Khawkinea quartana and the mold Mortierella alpina. Using the above-mentioned separation methods and the synthesis of appropriate standards of TAG, we identified regioisomers and enantiomers of both even and odd numbered TAG. The biosynthesis of odd numbered TAG was found to be strictly stereospecific and to depend on the production microorganism, one enantiomer predominating in the protozoan and the other in the mold. It was proved that even numbered TAG are synthesized in a higher optical purity, which can be explained by a higher affinity of acyltransferases to the respective substrate, i.e., to even chain PUFA.
In this work we demonstrate measurements with optical coherence tomography (OCT) of the scattering phase function in the backward direction and the scattering anisotropy parameter g. Measurements of the OCT attenuation coefficient and the backscattering amplitude are performed on calibrated polystyrene microspheres with a time-domain OCT system. From these measurements the phase function in the backward direction is determined. The measurements are described by the single scattering model and match Mie calculations very well. Measurements on Intralipid demonstrate the ability to determine the g of polydisperse samples and, for Intralipid, g = 0.35 +/- 0.03 is measured, which is well in agreement with g from literature. These measurements are validated using the Intralipid particle size distribution determined from TEM measurements. Measurements of g and the scattering phase function in the backward direction can be used to monitor changes in backscattering, which can indicate morphological changes of the sample or act as contrast enhancement mechanism.
Metallic nanoparticles (NPs) coated with stimuli-responsive polymers (SRPs) exhibit tunable optical properties responding to external stimuli and show promising sensing applications. We present a new CO2-responsive polymer, poly(N-(3-amidino)-aniline) (PNAAN), coated gold NPs (AuNPs) synthesized by directly reducing HAuCl4 with a CO2-responsive monomer N-(3-amidino)-aniline (NAAN). The amidine group of PNAAN can be protonated into a hydrophilic amidinium group by dissolved CO2 (dCO2). This induces the PNAAN to swell and detach from the AuNP surface, resulting in AuNP aggregation and color change. By monitoring the UV absorbance change of AuNPs, a sensitive dCO2 sensor with a linear range of 0.0132 to 0.1584 hPa and a limit of detection (LOD) of 0.0024 hPa is developed. This method shows dramatic improvement in sensitivity and convenience of sample preparation compared with the previously reported dCO2 sensor.
Aaron Antonovsky, the medical sociologist, defined the sense of coherence as a pervasive sense that the events in one's life are comprehensible, manageable, and meaningful or worthwhile. Research on the sense of coherence indicates that it is positively correlated with resilience and adaptive coping with disabilities and illnesses. The collection of first-person narratives published in Narrative Inquiry in Bioethics on genetic testing can be understood as expressions of the human effort to restore or sustain a sense of coherence in the face of illness, uncertainty, or even curiosity about one's origins and future wellbeing. While the medical usefulness of the genetic testing that was discussed in the collection of narratives was often modest, the contribution of testing to the sense of coherence was often greater. Understanding the sense of coherence as a possible motive for genetic testing might reshape the way that we conceive of the benefits and the burdens of genetic testing and the disclosure of incidental findings.
BACKGROUND: Comorbidities influence surgical outcomes and therefore need to be included in risk adjustment when predicting patient-reported outcomes. However, there is no consensus on how best to use the available data about comorbidities in registry-based predictive models. QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: The purposes of this study were (1) to determine whether the International Classification of Diseases, 10(th) Revision (ICD-10)-based comorbidity measures (Elixhauser, Charlson, and Royal College of Surgeons Charlson) offer added value in explaining patients' health-related quality of life (HRQoL), pain, and satisfaction after total hip arthroplasty (THA) when preoperative HRQoL, pain, and Charnley classification were known; and (2) to determine the ideal timeframe for recording the different diagnoses that serves as the basis for comorbidity measure calculations. METHODS: There were 22,263 patients who had undergone THA with complete pre- and postoperative patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) included in the Swedish Hip Arthroplasty Register between 2002 and 2007. The three comorbidity indices were calculated with ICD-10 codes identified in the Swedish National Patient Register from 1, 2, and 5 years before the patient underwent THA. The impact of the comorbidity indices on the PROM scores (EQ-5D index, EQ visual analog scale [VAS], pain VAS, and satisfaction VAS) was modeled with linear regression where the 1-year patient postoperative outcome score was the dependent variable and independent variables included patient preoperative Charnley classification, preoperative HRQoL and pain, and comorbidity indices. The partial R(2) value indicated how much each variable uniquely contributed to the predictive capacity of the model. RESULTS: The ICD-10-based comorbidity measures added little predictive value to the models for each of the outcomes of interest (EQ-5D index, EQ VAS, pain VAS, and satisfaction VAS). Charnley classification and the preoperative scores were the strongest predictors of both measures of postoperative HRQoL, of postoperative pain, and postoperative satisfaction with outcomes from surgery. Of all the predictors considered, only the Charnley classification was associated with all outcomes, irrespective of the timeframe considered. For each of the outcomes considered, there was a gradual increase in the models' predictive power with the length of the timeframe considered for calculating the comorbidity measures. CONCLUSIONS: For predicting outcomes 1 year after THA, we found that there was no added value in ICD-10-based comorbidity measures if patient Charnley classification and preoperative HRQoL and pain measures were known. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, therapeutic study.
Cell culture techniques have tended to be used in biomaterial research as a screening method prior to embarking on specific in vivo experimentation. This presentation aims at showing that it is possible to develop more sophisticated in vitro systems using primary human cells in co-culture with other cell types and biomaterials in a three-dimensional setting. While the predictive value of such systems is still not proven these models can be employed to unravel the complexity of biological systems in order to understand molecular mechanisms of cell-cell and cell-material interactions. The brief overview is under the headings of basic principles of relevant culture systems, the study of inflammation and the healing response, scenarios for specific biomaterial applications and future directions. How human endothelial cells can be usefully incorporated into more complex cell culture models is presented as an example of how relevant questions in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine can be addressed. The central tenet of this paper is that it is possible to refine in vitro methodology using cells of human origin to establish relevant assay systems that more closely simulate the cellular and molecular microenvironment encountered in a specific situation of regeneration using biomaterials.
OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated the effect of composite pre-polymerization temperature and energy density on the marginal adaptation (MA), degree of conversion (DC), flexural strength (FS), and polymer cross-linking (PCL) of a resin composite (Filtek Z350, 3M/ESPE). METHODS: For MA, class V cavities (4 mm x 2 mm x 2 mm) were prepared in 40 bovine incisors. The adhesive system Adper Single Bond 2 (3M/ESPE) was applied. Before being placed in the cavities, the resin composite was either kept at room-temperature (25 degrees C) or previously pre-heated to 68 degrees C in the Calset device (AdDent Inc., Danbury, CT, USA). The composite was then light polymerized for 20 or 40s at 600 mW/cm(2) (12 or 24 J/cm(2), respectively). The percentage of gaps was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy, after sectioning the restorations and preparing epoxy resin replicas. DC (n=3) was obtained by FT-Raman spectroscopy on irradiated and non-irradiated composite surfaces. FS (n=10) was measured by the three-point-bending test. KHN (n=6) was measured after 24 h dry storage and again after immersion in 100% ethanol solution for 24h, to calculate PCL density. Data were analyzed by appropriate statistical analyses. RESULTS: The pre-heated composite showed better MA than the room-temperature groups. A higher number of gaps were observed in the room-temperature groups, irrespective of the energy density, mainly in the axial wall (p<0.05). Composite pre-heating and energy density did not affect the DC, FS and PCL (p>0.05). SIGNIFICANCE: Pre-heating the composite prior to light polymerization similar in a clinical situation did not alter the mechanical properties and monomer conversion of the composite, but provided enhanced composite adaptation to cavity walls.
INTRODUCTION: According to the definition of the Committee to Identify Neuroprotective Agents in Parkinson's Disease (CINAPS), "neuroprotection would be any intervention that favourably influences the disease process or underlying pathogenesis to produce enduring benefits for patients" [Meissner W, et al. Trends Pharmacol Sci 2004;25:249-253]. Preferably, neuroprotective agents should be used before or eventually during the prodromal phase of the diseases that could start decades before the appearance of symptoms. Although several symptomatic drugs are available, a disease-modifying agent is still elusive. AREAS COVERED: The aim of the present review is to give an overview of neuroprotective agents being currently investigated for the treatment of AD, PD, HD and ALS in clinical phases. EXPERT OPINION: Development of effective neuroprotective therapies resulting in clinically meaningful results is hampered by several factors in all research stages, both conceptual and methodological. Novel solutions might be offered by evaluation of new targets throughout clinical studies, therapies emerging from drug repositioning approaches, multi-target approaches and network pharmacology.
Solid waste from anaerobic digestion of litter from the commercial production of broiler chickens has limited use as fertilizer. Its disposal is a major problem for digester operators who are seeking alternative use for anaerobic digester solids, also referred to as solid waste (SW). The use of SW as substrates for the cultivation of Pleurotus ostreatus strain MBFBL400 was investigated. Lignocellulolytic enzymes activity, substrate utilization, and mushroom yield were evaluated in ten different substrate combinations (SCs) containing varying amounts of solid waste, wheat straw, and millet. Nutritional content of mushrooms produced on the different substrates was also determined. Substrates containing 70-80% wheat straw, 10-20% SW, and 10-20% millet were found to produce the highest mushroom yield (874.8-958.3 g/kg). Loss of organic matter in all SCs tested varied from 45.8% to 56.2%, which had positive correlation with the biological efficiency. Laccase, peroxidase, and carboxymethylcellulase (CMCase) activities were higher before fruiting, whereas xylanase showed higher activities after mushroom fruiting. SW increased the nutritional content in mushrooms harvested, and the combination of wheat straw and SW with millet significantly improved mushroom yield. Our findings demonstrated the possibility of utilizing anaerobic digester solids in mushroom cultivation. The application of SW as such could improve the financial gains in the overall economy of anaerobic digester plants.
PURPOSE: To investigate the functional outcome of eyes with neovascular AMD (nAMD) and subretinal fluid (SRF) refractory to treatment with ranibizumab. METHODS: Retrospective chart review of consecutive treatment-refractory SRF in nAMD despite monthly ranibizumab injections during 12 months or more. Data were evaluated for baseline characteristics, location of the refractory SRF, mean visual acuity (VA) change, number of injections, and timepoint of first complete disappearance of SRF. RESULTS: Forty-five eyes in 44 patients (mean age of 76 years) were included. The mean follow-up was 32.4 months (range 12-73 months). The mean number of injections was 11.6 in the first year and 27.5 over follow-up. The refractory SRF was located subfoveally in 66.7 %. In 12 eyes (26.7 %), complete absorption of SRF was found after a mean of 22.6 months (range, 13-41 months). Mean VA increased by 10.4, 8.2, and 8.6 letters by month 12, 24, and 36, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Neovascular AMD with SRF refractory to monthly retreatment with ranibizumab may still allow good and maintained visual improvement, even if the fluid is located subfoveally. SRF may progressively absorb under continuous monthly treatment. The necessity to treat refractory SRF with monthly injections could be questioned and would need future investigations.
A genomic cluster of vsp genes was previously shown to mediate high-frequency phenotypic switching of surface lipoprotein antigens in the bovine pathogen Mycoplasma bovis. This study revealed that field strains of M. bovis possess modified versions of the vsp gene complex in which extensive sequence variations occur primarily in the reiterated coding sequences of the vsp structural genes. These findings demonstrate that there is a vastly expanded potential for antigenic variation within populations of this organism.
"Sudden Infant Death syndrome" (SIDS) represents the commonest category of infant death after the first month of life. As genome scale sequencing greatly facilitates the identification of new candidate disease variants, the challenges of ascribing causation to these variants persists. In order to determine the extent to which SIDS occurs in related individuals and their pedigree structure we undertook an analysis of SIDS using the Utah Population Database, recording, for example, evidence of enrichment for genetic causation following the back-to-sleep recommendations of 1992 and 1994. Our evaluation of the pre- and post back-to-sleep incidence of SIDS in Utah showed a decrease in SIDS incidence on the order of eightfold following back-to-sleep. An odds ratio of 4.2 for SIDS recurrence among sibs was identified from 1968 to 2013 which was similar to the odds ratio of 4.84 for death due to other or unknown cause among sibs of SIDS cases for the same time period. Combining first through thid degree relatives yielded an odds ratio of SIDS recurrence of 9.29 in the post-back-to-sleep (1995-2013) subset of SIDS cases where similar calculations of first-third degree relatives for the entire time period of 1968-2013 showed an odds ratio of 2.95. Expanded multigenertional pedigrees showing enrichment for SIDS were also identified. Based on these findings we hypothesize that post back-to-sleep SIDS, especially recurrences within a family, are potentially enriched for genetic causes due to the impact of safe sleeping guidelines in mitigating environmental risk factors. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The integrated chronic disease management (ICDM) model was introduced as a response to the dual burden of HIV/AIDS and non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in South Africa, one of the first of such efforts by an African Ministry of Health. The aim of the ICDM model is to leverage HIV programme innovations to improve the quality of chronic disease care. There is a dearth of literature on the perspectives of healthcare providers and users on the quality of care in the novel ICDM model. This paper describes the viewpoints of operational managers and patients regarding quality of care in the ICDM model.In 2013, we conducted a case study of the seven PHC facilities in the rural Agincourt sub-district in northeast South Africa. Focus group discussions (n = 8) were used to obtain data from 56 purposively selected patients >/=18 years. In-depth interviews were conducted with operational managers of each facility and the sub-district health manager. Donabedian's structure, process and outcome theory for service quality evaluation underpinned the conceptual framework in this study. Qualitative data were analysed, with MAXQDA 2 software, to identify 17 a priori dimensions of care and unanticipated themes that emerged during the analysis.The manager and patient narratives showed the inadequacies in structure (malfunctioning blood pressure machines and staff shortage); process (irregular prepacking of drugs); and outcome (long waiting times). There was discordance between managers and patients regarding reasons for long patient waiting time which managers attributed to staff shortage and missed appointments, while patients ascribed it to late arrival of managers to the clinics. Patients reported anti-hypertension drug stock-outs (structure); sub-optimal defaulter-tracing (process); rigid clinic appointment system (process). Emerging themes showed that patients reported HIV stigmatisation in the community due to defaulter-tracing activities of home-based carers, while managers reported treatment of chronic diseases by traditional healers and reduced facility-related HIV stigma because HIV and NCD patients attended the same clinic.Leveraging elements of HIV programmes for NCDs, specifically hypertension management, is yet to be achieved in the study setting in part because of malfunctioning blood pressure machines and anti-hypertension drug stock-outs. This has implications for the nationwide scale up of the ICDM model in South Africa and planning of an integrated chronic disease care in other low- and middle-income countries.
Nicotinic acid is one of the most effective agents for both lowering triglycerides and raising HDL. However, the side effect of cutaneous flushing severely limits patient compliance. As nicotinic acid stimulates the GPCR GPR109A and Gi/Go proteins, here we dissected the roles of G proteins and the adaptor proteins, beta-arrestins, in nicotinic acid-induced signaling and physiological responses. In a human cell line-based signaling assay, nicotinic acid stimulation led to pertussis toxin-sensitive lowering of cAMP, recruitment of beta-arrestins to the cell membrane, an activating conformational change in beta-arrestin, and beta-arrestin-dependent signaling to ERK MAPK. In addition, we found that nicotinic acid promoted the binding of beta-arrestin1 to activated cytosolic phospholipase A2 as well as beta-arrestin1-dependent activation of cytosolic phospholipase A2 and release of arachidonate, the precursor of prostaglandin D2 and the vasodilator responsible for the flushing response. Moreover, beta-arrestin1-null mice displayed reduced cutaneous flushing in response to nicotinic acid, although the improvement in serum free fatty acid levels was similar to that observed in wild-type mice. These data suggest that the adverse side effect of cutaneous flushing is mediated by beta-arrestin1, but lowering of serum free fatty acid levels is not. Furthermore, G protein-biased ligands that activate GPR109A in a beta-arrestin-independent fashion may represent an improved therapeutic option for the treatment of dyslipidemia.
OBJECTIVE: Accurate endoscopic differentiation would enable to resect and discard small and diminutive colonic lesions, thereby increasing cost-efficiency. Current classification systems based on narrow band imaging (NBI), however, do not include neoplastic sessile serrated adenomas/polyps (SSA/Ps). We aimed to develop and validate a new classification system for endoscopic differentiation of adenomas, hyperplastic polyps and SSA/Ps <10 mm. DESIGN: We developed the Workgroup serrAted polypS and Polyposis (WASP) classification, combining the NBI International Colorectal Endoscopic classification and criteria for differentiation of SSA/Ps in a stepwise approach. Ten consultant gastroenterologists predicted polyp histology, including levels of confidence, based on the endoscopic aspect of 45 polyps, before and after participation in training in the WASP classification. After 6 months, the same endoscopists predicted polyp histology of a new set of 50 polyps, with a ratio of lesions comparable to daily practice. RESULTS: The accuracy of optical diagnosis was 0.63 (95% CI 0.54 to 0.71) at baseline, which improved to 0.79 (95% CI 0.72 to 0.86, p<0.001) after training. For polyps diagnosed with high confidence the accuracy was 0.73 (95% CI 0.64 to 0.82), which improved to 0.87 (95% CI 0.80 to 0.95, p<0.01). The accuracy of optical diagnosis after 6 months was 0.76 (95% CI 0.72 to 0.80), increasing to 0.84 (95% CI 0.81 to 0.88) considering high confidence diagnosis. The combined negative predictive value with high confidence of diminutive neoplastic lesions (adenomas and SSA/Ps together) was 0.91 (95% CI 0.83 to 0.96). CONCLUSIONS: We developed and validated the first integrative classification method for endoscopic differentiation of small and diminutive adenomas, hyperplastic polyps and SSA/Ps. In a still image evaluation setting, introduction of the WASP classification significantly improved the accuracy of optical diagnosis overall as well as SSA/P in particular, which proved to be sustainable after 6 months.
As most mechanisms of adaptive immunity evolved during the divergence of vertebrates, the immune systems of extant vertebrates represent different successful variations on the themes initiated in their earliest common ancestors. The genes involved in elaborating these mechanisms have been subject to exceptional selective pressures in an arms race with highly adaptable pathogens, resulting in highly divergent sequences of orthologous genes and the gain and loss of members of gene families as different species find different solutions to the challenge of infection. Consequently, it has been difficult to transfer to the chicken detailed knowledge of the molecular mechanisms of the mammalian immune system and, thus, to enhance the already significant contribution of chickens toward understanding the evolution of immunity. The availability of the chicken genome sequence provides the opportunity to resolve outstanding questions concerning which molecular components of the immune system are shared between mammals and birds and which represent their unique evolutionary solutions. We have integrated genome data with existing knowledge to make a new comparative census of members of cytokine and chemokine gene families, distinguishing the core set of molecules likely to be common to all higher vertebrates from those particular to these 300 million-year-old lineages. Some differences can be explained by the different architectures of the mammalian and avian immune systems. Chickens lack lymph nodes and also the genes for the lymphotoxins and lymphotoxin receptors. The lack of functional eosinophils correlates with the absence of the eotaxin genes and our previously reported observation that interleukin- 5 (IL-5) is a pseudogene. To summarize, in the chicken genome, we can identify the genes for 23 ILs, 8 type I interferons (IFNs), IFN-gamma, 1 colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), 2 of the 3 known transforming growth factors (TGFs), 24 chemokines (1 XCL, 14 CCL, 8 CXCL, and 1 CX3CL), and 10 tumor necrosis factor superfamily (TNFSF) members. Receptor genes present in the genome suggest the likely presence of 2 other ILs, 1 other CSF, and 2 other TNFSF members.
The science of microbiology is very young in comparison with the age of mankind. Related developments in the area of pasteurization have been made during the past 131 yr. This symposium reveals some recent advancements in pasteurization of shell eggs and egg products.
Uveal melanoma is the most common malignant tumor of the adult eye. Fifty percent of tumors will eventually metastasize, and there are no effective treatments for them. Recent studies of uveal melanoma have identified activating mutations in GNAQ and GNA11, loss-of-function mutations in the tumor suppressor gene BAP1, and recurrent mutations in codon 625 of SF3B1. Previous studies have reported the existence of a higher frequency of GNA11 than GNAQ mutations, frequent BAP1 loss, and rare SF3B1 mutations in metastatic uveal melanoma. We analyzed a cohort of 30 uveal melanoma metastases for the occurrence of GNAQ, GNA11, and SF3B1 mutations, as well as BAP1 loss, and correlated these parameters with clinical and histopathologic features. Most (92%) tumors were composed of cells with an epithelioid or mixed (<100% spindle cells) morphology. Tumor samples composed exclusively of spindle cells were rare (n=2, 8%). Most tumors showed a moderate to marked degree of nuclear pleomorphism (n=24, 96%), and contained hyperchromatic, vesicular nuclei with variably conspicuous nucleoli. GNA11 mutations were considerably more frequent than GNAQ mutations (GNA11, GNAQ, and wild-type in 18 (60%), 6 (20%), and 6 (20%) cases, respectively). SF3B1 mutation was found in 1 of 26 tumors (4%), whereas loss of BAP1 expression was present in 13 of 16 tumors (81%). Patients with GNA11-mutant tumors had poorer disease-specific survival (60.0 vs 121.4 months, P=0.03) and overall survival (50.6 vs 121.4 months, P=0.03) than those with tumors lacking GNA11 mutations. The survival data, combined with the predominance of GNA11 mutations in metastases, raises the possibility that GNA11-mutant tumors may be associated with a higher risk of metastasis and poorer prognosis than GNAQ-mutant tumors. Further studies of uveal melanoma are required to investigate the functional and prognostic relevance of oncogenic mutations in GNA11 and GNAQ.
Mucosal sites are one of the main natural ports of entry into the body. Stimulation of a local response by antibodies as the systemic protection may enhance the efficacy of non-living vaccines, and allow for vaccination by subunit vaccines without the need for injection. Mucosal or skin vaccination necessitates a suitable adjuvant and carrier. Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LT) and its B subunit (LTB) have been found to be effective adjuvants. The aim of this study was to efficiently produce and purify recombinant LTB (brLTB), and examine its adjuvant and carrier properties. The gene encoding LTB was cloned and expressed in E. coli, and the product was found to have a pentameric form with the ability to bind the cell receptor, GM1 ganglioside. A one-step method for efficient purification and concentration of brLTB was developed. Both oral and intramuscular vaccination with purified brLTB yielded high antibody titers, which detected the whole toxin. In an attempt to test its adjuvant characteristics, brLTB was mixed with either BSA or a recombinant protein (rKnob of egg drop syndrome adenovirus) and delivered intramuscularly, orally or transcutaneously. The addition of brLTB significantly elevated the antibody response in groups vaccinated orally and transcutaneously, but had no influence in injected groups. Vaccination with another recombinant protein, (viral protein 2 of infectious bursal disease virus) supplemented with brLTB did not elevate the antibody response, as compared to vaccination with the antigen alone. These results demonstrate that the addition of brLTB makes oral and transcutaneous vaccination with protein antigens possible.
We report the case of a 51-year-old woman presenting t(4;11) acute undifferentiated leukemia 19 months after initiation of adjuvant radio-chemotherapy for a breast cancer. Morphology of the blasts was FAB L2 and cytochemical and immunological studies were in favor of an undifferentiated leukemia. A possible relationship between t(4;11) leukemia and exposure to carcinogens is discussed.
Suppressing unwanted memories can impair their later recall. Recent work shows that this forgetting is achieved by at least two mechanisms supported by distinct neural systems: thought substitution and direct suppression (Benoit & Anderson, 2012). Here, we examined whether direct suppression, thought to be achieved by down-regulation of hippocampal activity, can disrupt memory of aversive scenes, and, if so, whether this disruption is linked to people's perception of their ability to control intrusive thoughts. We presented participants with strong naturalistic reminders to aversive scenes and asked them to either covertly retrieve or directly suppress the associated scenes. Later, participants were cued with the reminders and asked to recall the scenes in detail. Direct suppression reduced recall probability of the scenes and also reduced the number of details recalled, even when scenes were remembered. Deficits in recall arose for minor details but also for details central to each scene's gist. Participants with higher self-perceived control abilities over intrusive thoughts showed greater forgetting than did those reporting lower levels of control. These findings suggest that inhibitory processes underlying direct suppression can disrupt retention of aversive visual memories and link those processes to individual differences in control over intrusive thoughts in everyday life. These findings reinforce the possibility that inhibition may be less efficient in people likely to acquire posttraumatic stress disorder in the wake of a traumatic experience.
According to our earlier pioneering study, a dry film containing native bacteriorhodopsin (bR) shows unique nonlinear optical properties (refractive index change, controllable by light of different colors, greater than 2 x 10(-3)) that are in many respects superior to those of the materials presently applied in integrated optics. Here, we report on the first integrated optical application based on a miniature Mach-Zehnder interferometer (see Figs. 1 and 2) demonstrating a real switching effect by bR (efficiency higher than 90%) due to the M-state. Our results also imply that the refractive index change of the K-state (9 x 10(-4)) is high enough for fast switching.
The objective of this work was to develop an in silico model to predict the sublingual permeability of a drug based on physicochemical descriptors of a molecule. Fourteen model drugs with diverse physicochemical properties were selected for this study. Molecular volume, molecular weight, logP, logD (pH 6.8), pKa, total polar surface area, hydrogen bond acceptors and donors (HBD), number of rotatable bonds, solubility (pH 6.8), and melting point were used as molecular descriptors. Apparent permeability coefficients (Pe) of drugs across porcine sublingual mucosa were determined experimentally. Multiple linear regression (MLR) was used to develop the model with permeability as the response variable and various descriptors as the predictive variables. Q(2), the cross-validated correlation coefficient, was used to assess the prediction ability of the model. MLR analysis showed that HBD and logD were the significant descriptors (P<0.05, Q(2)=0.88) in the sublingual permeability model. The resulting model is expressed as the following equation:An excellent fit with R(2) of 0.93 was obtained between experimental and predicted permeabilities. The analysis of contributions of molecular descriptors to sublingual permeability revealed the molecular structure basis of permeation across sublingual mucosa. In conclusion, an in silico model was developed to predict sublingual permeability of drugs using known descriptors for evaluating the feasibility of sublingual drug delivery.
The treatment of malignant tumors may cause severe adverse reactions including cardiovascular problems. The case of a young woman with trastuzumab (Herceptin) induced dilatation cardiomyopathy with favorable outcome is presented in the article.
Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are linear polysaccharides with repeating disaccharide units. GAGs include heparin, heparan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, keratan sulfate, and hyaluronan. All GAGs, except for hyaluronan, are usually sulfated. GAGs are polymerized by mono- or dual-specific glycosyltransferases and sulfated by various sulfotransferases. To further our understanding of GAG chain length regulation and synthesis of specific sulfation motifs on GAG chains, it is imperative to understand the kinetics of GAG synthetic enzymes. Here, nonradioactive colorimetric enzymatic assays are described for these glycosyltransferases and sulfotransferases. In both cases, the leaving nucleotides or nucleosides are hydrolyzed using specific phosphatases, and the released phosphate is subsequently detected using malachite reagents.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The occurrence of reflux disease seems to be rising in the United States. The aim of the present study was to follow the time trends of hospitalization for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and other esophageal disease during the past 4 decades. METHODS: US hospital utilization data were available for individual years from 1970 to 2010 through the National Hospital Discharge Survey. Esophageal diagnoses were stratified by their ninth revision of the International Classification of Diseases codes. Annual hospitalizations were expressed as rates per 100,000 living US population. RESULTS: GERD was by far the most common esophageal disorder resulting in hospitalization. However, in only 5% of instances did GERD-related diagnoses constitute the primary cause of hospitalization. Between 1970 and 2010 the rates of GERD-related hospitalizations increased in an exponential manner almost 10-fold. This rise affected both sex and all age groups alike. A 3-fold rise was noted in hospitalizations for esophageal adenocarcinoma. Other esophageal diagnoses, such as achalasia, dyskinesia, or stricture were characterized by falling or stable trends. CONCLUSIONS: US hospitalization data show a continued exponential rise in the occurrence of GERD without any signs of leveling off. These trends are likely to represent ongoing changes in the underlying incidence and prevalence of the disease.
The bursa of Fabricius represents the major site of B lymphocyte development in avian species. Although the vast majority of bursal lymphocytes express cell surface immunoglobulin (sIg), it is generally considered that the bursa does not represent a significant site of antigen-induced B cell maturation to Ig secretion. However, the question as to whether antigen, either exogenous or self, can induce positive or negative selection of bursal lymphocytes in such a way as to modify the peripheral B cell repertoire remains open. Clearly, such intrabursal selection would require that bursal lymphocyte sIg have the molecular machinery to transduce signals into the cell as a consequence of its interaction with antigen. In this report we demonstrate that exposure of bursal lymphocytes to antibodies directed against sIg induced a rapid increase in cytosolic free calcium ion concentrations [Ca2+]i. Furthermore, such antibodies also induced a rapid increase in intracellular phosphatidic acid concentrations followed by a rise in intracellular phosphatidylinositol. Increased [Ca2+]i, phosphatidic acid and phosphatidylinositol levels required the cross-linking of sIg and were not induced by antibodies to other bursal cell surface antigens. Thus, cross-linking of the sIg on bursal lymphocytes results in second messenger generation, demonstrating that bursal sIg is a functional signal transduction element.
Geminiviruses multiply primarily in the plant phloem, but never in meristems. Their Rep protein can activate DNA synthesis in differentiated cells. However, when their single-stranded DNA is injected into the phloem by insects, no Rep is present for inducing initial complementary strand replication. Considering a contribution of translesion synthesis (TLS) polymerases in plants, four of them (Poleta, Polzeta, Polkappa, Rev1) are highly and constitutively expressed in differentiated tissues like the phloem. Two geminiviruses (Euphorbia yellow mosaic virus, Cleome leaf crumple virus), inoculated either biolistically or by whiteflies, replicated in Arabidopsis thaliana mutant lines of these genes to the same extent as in wild type plants. Comparative deep sequencing of geminiviral DNAs, however, showed a high exchange rate (10(-4)-10(-3)) similar to the phylogenetic variation described before and a significant difference in nucleotide substation rates if Poleta and Polzeta were absent, with a differential response to the viral DNA components.
Monocytes, monocyte-derived adherent cells and dendritic cells all play a role in cellular immunity. In this study, we describe the isolation of monocyte-derived adherent cells and dendritic cells from a model marsupial, the tammar wallaby, Macropus eugenii, and report that in vitro, these cells appear morphologically similar to these cells found in other mammals. The successful culture of marsupial monocyte and dendritic cells was undertaken in serum-free medium which contained lymphocyte conditioned medium as an absolute requirement. This supports the view that similar to cultured dendritic cells from other species reported to date, specific growth factors are required to promote the maturation and differentiation of these cells.
The system for production of inoculum of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) using sand and vermiculite irrigated with nutrient solution is promising. However, organic amendments added to the substrate can stimulate sporulation of AMF and replace the nutrient solution. The aim of this study was to maximize the production of AMF (Acaulospora longula, Claroideoglomus etunicatum, Dentiscutata heterogama and Gigaspora albida) using selected organic substrates (vermicompost, coir dust and Tropstrato) together with sand and vermiculite. The production of spores varied among the tested AMF and according to the organic source added to the substrate. The vermicompost promoted higher sporulation of A. longula in relation to the other AMF and substrates. The Tropstrato inhibited the sporulation of D. heterogama while the reproduction of C. etunicatum was not affected by the organic compounds. The inoculum of A. longula also showed a high number of infective propagules and promoted biomass accumulation in maize plants. The system of inoculum production using sand and vermiculite + 10% vermicompost favors the production of infective inoculum of A. longula with the fungus benefiting growth of corn plants.
The object of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics of darunavir-ritonavir and atazanavir-ritonavir once-daily dosing over 72 h (h) following drug intake cessation. Volunteers received darunavir-ritonavir at 800 and 100 mg, respectively, once daily for 10 days, followed by a 7-day washout period, and atazanavir-ritonavir at 300 and 100 mg, respectively, once daily for 10 days. Full pharmacokinetic profiles were assessed for each phase for the 72 h following day 10. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined over 24 h and to the last measurable concentration by noncompartmental methods. Seventeen subjects completed the study. The geometric mean (GM) terminal elimination half-life to 72 h of darunavir was 6.48 h, which was lower than the 0- to 24-h half-life (10.70 h). The terminal elimination half-life of atazanavir was 6.74 h, which was lower than the 0- to 24-h half-life (13.72 h). All subjects but one had darunavir concentrations higher than the target of 550 ng/ml for protease-resistant HIV isolates (equivalent to 10 times the protein-binding-corrected 50% inhibitory concentration [IC(50)] for wild-type virus) at 24 h postdose, and 14 out of 17 had concentrations higher than the target at 30 h postdose (GM of 1,088 and 851 ng/ml). All subjects had atazanavir concentrations above the suggested minimum effective concentration of 150 ng/ml (equivalent to 10 times the protein-binding-corrected IC(50) for wild-type virus) at 24 and 30 h postdose (GM of 693 and 392 ng/ml). Two of 17 and 5 of 17 subjects were above target at 48 h postdose while on darunavir-ritonavir and atazanavir-ritonavir. Ritonavir half-life to 72 h was 6.84 h with darunavir and 6.07 with atazanavir. This study investigated the pharmacokinetic forgiveness of two boosted protease inhibitors. Although the rates of decline of darunavir and atazanavir slightly increased as ritonavir concentrations declined, most individuals had concentrations 6 h after the end of the ideal dosing interval of 24 h which were above the cutoff used to define therapeutic concentrations.
The quantitative differences between the activity of the 3 common phenotypes of human red cell GPT has been confirmed. In addition, the activity of red cell GPT 1 was found to be greater in young children than in adults. No such difference was found for the GPT 2 phenotype. The activity of the red cell GPT 1 was found to decrease with age, reaching the adult level at the age of 10 to 12 years. Red cell GPT of all the 3 common phenotypes in both adults and children was found to show a similar response to the addition of excess pyridoxal phosphate. A method has been devised for the partial purification of human GPT (cytoplasmic) from liver. GPT 1 and GPT 2 have been purified, and very few significant differences were found amongst the physical and kinetic parameters tested.
Supramolecular photochemical systems consist of photochemically active components such as chromophores, electron donors or electron acceptors that are associated via non-covalent or covalent interactions and that interact in some functional way. Examples of interactions are singlet-singlet energy transfer, triplet-triplet energy transfer, photoinduced electron transfer, quantum coherence and spin-spin magnetic interactions. Supramolecular photochemical "devices" may have applications in areas such as solar energy conversion, molecular logic, computation and data storage, biomedicine, sensing, imaging, and displays. This short review illustrates supramolecular photochemistry with examples drawn from artificial photosynthesis, molecular logic, analog photochemical devices and models for avian magnetic orientation.
Many genes that mediate sexual reproduction, such as those involved in gamete recognition, diverge rapidly, often as a result of adaptive evolution. This widespread phenomenon might have important consequences, such as the establishment of barriers to fertilization that might lead to speciation. Sequence comparisons and functional studies are beginning to show the extent to which the rapid divergence of reproductive proteins is involved in the speciation process.
The extracellular adherence protein (Eap) from Staphylococcus aureus has been suggested as a vaccine candidate and for therapeutic use due to its immunomodulating and antiangiogenic properties; however, little is known about anti-Eap antibodies in humans. We determined anti-Eap antibody titers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Western blot and measured serum samples from 92 patients with proven S. aureus infections and 93 healthy controls. The functionality of antibodies was assessed by a phagocytosis assay using Eap-coated fluorescent microspheres. Antibodies were detected in all human samples, but not in mice. Patients showed significantly higher titers than controls [immunoglobulin M (IgM), P=0.007; IgG, P<0.0001]. Patients with deep or severe infections showed higher titers than those with superficial or mild disease. Eap alone was sufficient to promote phagocytosis by peripheral blood mononuclear cell and granulocytes that was moderately enhanced in the presence of human serum, but no correlation was found with the levels of anti-Eap antibodies. Anti-Eap antibodies are prevalent in all tested humans and correlate with the severity of S. aureus infection; however, they do not seem to provide protection against invasive infections. Before considering Eap for therapy or as a vaccine candidate, further studies are warranted to assess the impact of the interference between Eap and its specific antibodies.
Desulfitobacterium dehalogenans is able to grow by organohalide respiration using 3-chloro-4-hydroxyphenyl acetate (Cl-OHPA) as an electron acceptor. We used a combination of genome sequencing, biochemical analysis of redox active components, and shotgun proteomics to study elements of the organohalide respiratory electron transport chain. The genome of Desulfitobacterium dehalogenans JW/IU-DC1(T) consists of a single circular chromosome of 4,321,753 bp with a GC content of 44.97%. The genome contains 4,252 genes, including six rRNA operons and six predicted reductive dehalogenases. One of the reductive dehalogenases, CprA, is encoded by a well-characterized cprTKZEBACD gene cluster. Redox active components were identified in concentrated suspensions of cells grown on formate and Cl-OHPA or formate and fumarate, using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), visible spectroscopy, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of membrane extracts. In cell suspensions, these components were reduced upon addition of formate and oxidized after addition of Cl-OHPA, indicating involvement in organohalide respiration. Genome analysis revealed genes that likely encode the identified components of the electron transport chain from formate to fumarate or Cl-OHPA. Data presented here suggest that the first part of the electron transport chain from formate to fumarate or Cl-OHPA is shared. Electrons are channeled from an outward-facing formate dehydrogenase via menaquinones to a fumarate reductase located at the cytoplasmic face of the membrane. When Cl-OHPA is the terminal electron acceptor, electrons are transferred from menaquinones to outward-facing CprA, via an as-yet-unidentified membrane complex, and potentially an extracellular flavoprotein acting as an electron shuttle between the quinol dehydrogenase membrane complex and CprA.
It has been a matter of debate as to whether dental implant therapies are suitable for patients subjected to long-term use of bisphosphonates (BPs). This report presents a case of a 76-year-old woman who developed BPs-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (BRONJ) in the left hemimandible after dental implant exposure. The implants and the necrotic crestal bone were removed, and postoperatively, a delay in tissue healing with bone exposure was noticed. The histologic analysis of the block biopsies revealed a lamellar bone tissue exhibiting necrotic areas and bacterial colonies associated with the bone outer surface. The bone-implant interface showed viable lamellar bone with enlarged vascular spaces in the areas between the implant threads. The possible mechanisms for the loss of implants in BRONJ patients are discussed, and the potential protocols for dental implant rehabilitation for patients under BP therapies are presented.
Rock varnish from Arizona's Whipple Mountains harbors a microbial community containing about 10(8) microorganisms g(-1) of varnish. Analyses of varnish phospholipid fatty acids and rRNA gene libraries reveal a community comprised of mostly Proteobacteria but also including Actinobacteria, eukaryota, and a few members of the Archaea. Rock varnish represents a significant niche for microbial colonization.
Cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) elicit immune response in cancer patients and are therefore targets of immunotherapy. Current information on CTA expression is primarily based on mRNA assays and little is known about their expression at the protein level. The objectives of our study are to analyze GAGE, NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A and SSX protein expression in esophageal cancer and to correlate their expression patterns with clinicopathologic parameters and survival. We examined CTA protein expression in 213 patients with esophageal cancer by immunohistochemistry. Antigen-positive tumors were evaluated once and antigen-negative tumors were evaluated 3 times by examining different parts of the cancer specimen. GAGE, NY-ESO-1 and MAGE-A were heterogeneously expressed in 42 (20%), 44 (21%) and 111 (52%) tumors, respectively, whereas SSX expression was not detected. Of the 126 (59%) patients expressing CTAs, 70 (33%) expressed 1, 41 (19%) expressed 2 and 15 (7%) expressed 3 antigens. The expression of MAGE-A was correlated with those of GAGE (p = 0.001) and NY-ESO-1 (p = 0.002), and the expression of GAGE was correlated with that of NY-ESO-1 (p = 0.002). One hundred fifty-six (79%) sections were positively stained in the first evaluation, whereas 37 (19%) and 4 (2%) positive sections were identified in the second and third evaluations, respectively. Particularly, MAGE and GAGE expression showed overlaps. GAGE, NY-ESO-1 and MAGE-A protein expression was not correlated with the disease progression, TNM factors or survival. The detection of immunonegative cells in every specimen suggests addition of other drugs such as 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine to increase the therapeutic effect of CTA-specific cancer vaccines.
Members of the genus Basidiobolus, a saprophytic fungus, have been associated with the digestive tracts of a wide variety of amphibians and reptiles. To elucidate the relationship of Basidiobolus sp. with amphibians in central Florida (USA), we document the occurrence of the fungus in the digestive tracts of Bufo terrestris, Buffo quercicus, Hyla femoralis, Hyla cinerea, Hyla gratiosa, Hyla squirella, Osteopilus septentrionalis, and Rana utricularia. Species that occupy terrestrial habitats (B. terrestris, B. quercicus, and R. utricularis) were found to harbor Basidiobolus spp. more frequently (83, 78, and 91%, respectively) than those that occupied a more arboreal habitat (H. cinerea, H. squirella, H. femoralis, H. gratiosa, and O. septentrionalis (50, 56, 55, 56, and 70%, respectively).
BACKGROUND: We describe the surgical response of two affiliated hospitals during the day of, and week following, the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attack at the World Trade Center in New York City. The city of New York has 18 state designated regional trauma centers that receive major trauma victims. The southern half of Manhattan is served by a burn center, two regional trauma centers, and a community hospital that is an affiliate of one of the regional trauma centers. This report accounts for the surgical response by a regional trauma center (Hospital A, located 2.5 miles from the World Trade Center) and its affiliate hospital (Hospital B, located 5 city blocks from the World Trade Center) on September 11th when two commercial jets crashed into the Twin Towers at the World Trade Center mall. METHODS: Hospital A maintained a concurrent log of patients received during the first 5 hours, the first day, and the first week after the disaster which was kept by the Surgical Triage Officer. The trauma registry completed and verified this data by September 18th. Hospital B collected its data by hand counting and verification by chart review. Both hospitals, A and B, had established disaster plans that were implemented. RESULTS: Nine hundred eleven patients were received by two affiliated hospitals from the World Trade Center attack. Seven hundred seventy six patients (85%) were walking wounded, sustaining mild inhalation and eye irritant injuries. One hundred thirty five (15%) were admitted with 18 (13%) of these undergoing surgery. Twenty two of the 23 transfers were from the community hospital to specialized orthopedic or burn centers. Of the 109 patients admitted to Hospital A, 30 were to the surgical service. The mean ISS score of these patients was 12. There were 4 deaths (within minutes of arrival at the hospital) and 6 delayed deaths (day 1-14). Excluding walking wounded and DOAs, the critical mortality rate was 37.5% overall. CONCLUSION: The September 11th, 2001, terrorist attack in New York City, involving two commercial airliners crashing into the World Trade Center, led to 911 patients received at two affiliated hospitals in lower Manhattan. One hospital is a regional trauma center and one was an affiliate community hospital. Eighty five percent of the patients received were walking wounded. Of the rest, 13% underwent surgical procedures with an overall critical mortality rate of 37.5%.
Evaluation of the chemical composition and antihyperglycemic and antioxidant activity of five wild edible mushrooms (Clitocybe maxima, Catathelasma ventricosum, Stropharia rugoso-annulata, Craterellus cornucopioides and Laccaria amethystea) from Southwest China. The chemical composition assay includes proximate analysis (moisture, ash, crude protein, crude fat, total carbohydrates and total energy), bioactive compounds analysis (total phenolic, flavonoid, ascorbic acid, ergosterol, tocopherol), fatty acid analysis, amino acid analysis, phenolic compounds analysis and mineral analysis of these mushrooms. Furthermore, assays of alpha-glucosidase inhibitory and alpha-amylase inhibitory activity were used for evaluating antihyperglycemic activity of the mushrooms, and assays of reducing power, chelating effect on ferrous ions, scavenging effect on hydroxyl free radicals and 1,1-Diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity were used for evaluating antioxidant activity of the mushrooms. Based on the results, ethanolic and aqueous extract of these mushroom all showed antihyperglycemic and antioxidant potential. In particular, the aqueous extract of C. ventricosum revealed the highest alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity (EC50 value 2.74 mug/mL), DPPH radical scavenging activity (EC50 value 2.86 mg/mL) and reducing power (EC50 value 0.96 mg/mL), while the aqueous extract of L. amethystea showed the highest alpha-amylase inhibitory activity (EC50 value 4.37 mug/mL) and metal chelating activity (EC50 value 2.13 mg/mL).
Genetic diversity within the Marwari breed of horses was evaluated using 26 different microsatellite pairs with 48 DNA samples from unrelated horses. This molecular characterisation was undertaken to evaluate the problem of genetic bottlenecks also, if any, in this breed. The estimated mean (-/+ s.e.) allelic diversity was 5.9 (-/+ 2.24), with a total of 133 alleles. A high level of genetic variability within this breed was observed in terms of high values of mean (-/+ s.e.) effective number of alleles (3.3 -/+ 1.27), observed heterozygosity (0.5306 -/+ 0.22), expected Levene's heterozygosity (0.6612 -/+ 0.15), expected Nei's heterozygosity (0.6535 -/+ 0.14), and polymorphism information content (0.6120 -/+ 0.03). Low values of Wright's fixation index, F(IS) (0.2433 -/+ 0.05) indicated low levels of inbreeding. This basic study indicated the existence of substantial genetic diversity in the Marwari horse population. No significant genotypic linkage disequilibrium was detected across the population, suggesting no evidence of linkage between loci. A normal 'L' shaped distribution of mode-shift test, non-significant heterozygote excess on the basis of different models, as revealed from Sign, Standardized differences and Wilcoxon sign rank tests as well as non-significant M ratio value suggested that there was no recent bottleneck in the existing Marwari breed population, which is important information for equine breeders. This study also revealed that the Marwari breed can be differentiated from some other exotic breeds of horses on the basis of three microsatellite primers.
ABC (ATP-binding cassette) proteins constitute a large family of membrane proteins that actively transport a broad range of substrates. Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), the protein dysfunctional in cystic fibrosis, is unique among ABC proteins in that its transmembrane domains comprise an ion channel. Opening and closing of the pore have been linked to ATP binding and hydrolysis at CFTR's two nucleotide-binding domains, NBD1 and NBD2 (see, for example, refs 1, 2). Isolated NBDs of prokaryotic ABC proteins dimerize upon binding ATP, and hydrolysis of the ATP causes dimer dissociation. Here, using single-channel recording methods on intact CFTR molecules, we directly follow opening and closing of the channel gates, and relate these occurrences to ATP-mediated events in the NBDs. We find that energetic coupling between two CFTR residues, expected to lie on opposite sides of its predicted NBD1-NBD2 dimer interface, changes in concert with channel gating status. The two monitored side chains are independent of each other in closed channels but become coupled as the channels open. The results directly link ATP-driven tight dimerization of CFTR's cytoplasmic nucleotide-binding domains to opening of the ion channel in the transmembrane domains. This establishes a molecular mechanism, involving dynamic restructuring of the NBD dimer interface, that is probably common to all members of the ABC protein superfamily.
Growing ornamental fish industry is associated with public health concerns including extensive antibiotic use accompanied by increasing antibiotic resistance. The aim of this study was to analyze Aeromonas isolates from imported tropical ornamental fish and coldwater koi carps bred in the Czech Republic to assess the potential risk of ornamental fish as a source of plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance genes (PMQR) and antibiotic resistance plasmids. A collection of Aeromonas spp. with reduced susceptibility to ciprofloxacin (MIC >/= 0.05 mg/L) was selected for the detection of PMQR genes. Isolates harbouring PMQR genes were further analyzed for the additional antibiotic resistance, integron content, clonality, biofilm production and transferability of PMQR genes by conjugation and transformation. Comparative analysis of plasmids carrying PMQR genes was performed. Fifteen (19%, n=80) isolates from koi carps and 18 (24%, n=76) isolates from imported ornamental fish were positive for qnrS2, aac(6')-Ib-cr or qnrB17 genes. PMQR-positive isolates from imported ornamental fish showed higher MIC levels to quinolones, multiresistance and diverse content of antibiotic resistance genes and integrons compared to the isolates from the carps. Related IncU plasmids harbouring qnrS2 and aac(6')-Ib-cr genes were found in Aeromonas spp. from imported ornamental fish and koi carps from various geographical areas. Ornamental fish may represent a potential source of multiresistant bacteria and mobile genetic elements for the environment and for humans.
BACKGROUND: Fever occurs frequently in acute brain injury patients, and its occurrence is associated with poorer outcomes. Paracetamol, an antipyretic frequently employed in patients with cerebral damage, may cause hypotension. We evaluated the cerebral and hemodynamic effects of intravenous (IV) paracetamol for the control of fever in Neuro-Intensive Care Unit (NICU) patients. METHODS: This is a prospective observational study in which we enrolled 32 NICU patients: Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (SAH, n = 18), Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI, n = 10), Intracerebral Hemorrhage (ICH, n = 2) and Acute Ischemic Stroke (AIS, n = 2). RESULTS: The administration of paracetamol resulted in a decrease of core body temperature (Tc) (p = 0,0001), mean arterial pressure (MAP) (p = 0,0006), cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) (p = 0,0033), and jugular venous oxygen saturation (SjVO2) (p = 0.0193), and in an increase of arteriojugular venous differences of oxygen (AVDO2) (p = 0.0012). The proportion of patients who had an infusion of norepinephrine increased from 47 % to 75 % (p = 0.0039 McNemar Test). When intracranial pressure (ICP) at the start of paracetamol infusion (t-0) was compared with the measurement of ICP after 2 h, a significant correlation was observed (r = 0.669, p = 0.0002). This marked and significant correlation can be explained by the fact that for the higher levels of ICP assessed at t-0 (greater than 15 mmHg), we observed a marked reduction of ICP concomitant with the decrease of Tc. No problems related to norepinephrine administration and/or increase in dosage were observed. CONCLUSION: Paracetamol administration is effective but exposes patients to hypotensive episodes that must be recognized and treated expeditiously to prevent further damage to the injured brain.
INTRODUCTION: Mutational analysis of RAS is required for anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) treatment for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). However, most patients with KRAS wild-type tumors still do not respond. Other molecules downstream of the EGFR may also play a role in resistance to EGFR therapies. OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to investigate the clinical importance of biomarkers in relation to response, progression-free survival, and overall survival in patients with mCRC receiving first-line treatment with anti-EGFR therapy plus chemotherapy. METHODS: We studied the EGFR pathway [EGFR, NRAS, BRAF, PIK3CA, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), amphiregulin (AREG), and epiregulin (EREG)] in 105 patients with mCRC KRAS codon 12 wild type. We analysed objective response, progression-free survival, and overall survival in molecularly defined subgroups of the patients receiving anti-EGFR therapy plus chemotherapy as first-line treatment. RESULTS: We found a significant association between RAS wild-type, BRAF wild-type, EREG, and AREG overexpression and response to anti-EGFR therapy (p = 0.003, p = 0.015, p = 0.05, and p = 0.009, respectively). Progression-free survival and overall survival were lower in patients with RAS (p = 0.36 and p </= 0.001, respectively) or BRAF (p = 0.003 and p = 0.002, respectively) mutant tumors. Patients with EREG and AREG messenger RNA (mRNA) expression had longer survival than those with low-expression tumors; progression-free survival and overall survival were significant for AREG (p = 0.001 and p = 0.05, respectively). Patients with EGFR amplification tumors responded better to treatment and had better survival rates, although this was not significant. PIK3CA and PTEN were not associated with either response or survival. The multivariate logistic regression model for response showed only BRAF as a significant predictor after adjustment for the other covariates (p = 0.04, odds ratio 8.3, 95 % confidence interval 0.81-86.0). CONCLUSIONS: RAS, BRAF, AREG, and EREG predict for efficacy of first-line anti-EGFR therapy in patients with mCRC.
A hallmark of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis life cycle is the pathogen's ability to switch between replicative and non-replicative states in response to host immunity. Transcriptional profiling by qPCR of approximately 50 M. tuberculosis genes involved in central and lipid metabolism revealed a re-routing of carbon flow associated with bacterial growth arrest during mouse lung infection. Carbon rerouting was marked by a switch from metabolic pathways generating energy and biosynthetic precursors in growing bacilli to pathways for storage compound synthesis during growth arrest. Results of flux balance analysis using an in silico metabolic network were consistent with the transcript abundance data obtained in vivo. Similar transcriptional changes were seen in vitro when M. tuberculosis cultures were treated with bacteriostatic stressors under different nutritional conditions. Thus, altered expression of key metabolic genes reflects growth rate changes rather than changes in substrate availability. A model describing carbon flux rerouting was formulated that (i) provides a coherent interpretation of the adaptation of M. tuberculosis metabolism to immunity-induced stress and (ii) identifies features common to mycobacterial dormancy and stress responses of other organisms.
OBJECTIVE: Current prognosticators for patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) do not take into account signs of extracerebral organ dysfunction. This may explain the only moderate predictive value of these prognosticators. We assessed the prognostic value of the simplified acute physiology score (SAPS) II in SAH patients. METHODS: In a retrospective cohort study of 148 consecutive SAH patients, we related the SAPS II calculated within 24 hours after admission to clinical and initial computed tomographic imaging characteristics using the Mann-Whitney U test. We compared the prognostic value of the SAPS II with that of the World Federation of Neurosurgical Surgeons score, the patient's age, and the amount of blood showing in computed tomographic imaging for the occurrence of delayed cerebral ischemia using Cox proportional hazards modeling or, for poor outcome (death or dependence), logistic regression modeling. RESULTS: In the univariate analysis, the SAPS II was the strongest prognosticator; in the multivariate model, the SAPS II was the only independent predictor for outcome (odds ratio, 1.08; 95% confidence interval, 1.06-1.11]). Patients in the highest tertile of SAPS II had a significantly higher risk of poor outcome than those in the lowest tertile (odds ratio, 30.9; 95% confidence interval, 9.9-96.7]). The SAPS II was also the only independent predictor for the occurrence of delayed cerebral ischemia (hazard ratio, 1.020; 95% confidence interval, 1.002-1.039]). CONCLUSION: The SAPS II is a useful and reliable prognosticator in SAH patients. This score may provide more information than specific SAH scales in predicting poor outcome or the occurrence of delayed cerebral ischemia in some circumstances.
Introduction Increasing evidence suggests that inflammation and increased macrophage activity have a central role in pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. It is shown that chitotriosidase (CHIT-1) is a marker of macrophage activity in atherosclerotic plaque, and is found associated with severity of atherosclerotic lesion. There is no data about CHIT-1 activity of hemodialysis patients in the literature. Thus, we hypothesized that in hemodialysis patients, CHIT-1 levels might be a novel biomarker in early atherosclerosis. Methods Forty-five hemodialysis patients were included in the study (age: 61.93 +/- 13.34). Intima media thickness (IMT) was evaluated with high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography. Biomarker levels were measured in serum of patients. Findings We found positive correlation among IMT, age (R: 0.426, P: 0.004) and, CHIT-1 value (R: 0.462, P: 0.001) in spearman correlation analysis. When age, CRP, creatinine, P, Alb, CHIT-1 were chosen as measures that can effect IMT in multiple regression model, IMT level was related with CHIT-1 (Beta: 0,396, P: 0.012) and age (Beta: 0,313 P: 0,048) independently. Discussion In conclusion, this is the first report showing that serum CHIT-1 level was related independently with carotid IMT in hemodialysis patients. This biomarker might have an unknown role in the development of atherosclerosis during uremia.
Samples were tested for enterovirus by nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) (NucliSens Basic kit; BioMerieux), reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) (Enterovirus Consensus RT-PCR kit; Argene Biosoft), and virus isolation. Eighty-two samples were tested, and 44 were positive, 34 by both NASBA and RT-PCR and 5 each by NASBA or RT-PCR only. Two nasopharyngeal samples positive only by RT-PCR were determined to be rhinovirus. Of 42 enterovirus-positive samples, NASBA detected 39 (92.9%) and RT-PCR detected 37 (88.1%). The NucliSens Basic kit and the Argene Biosoft RT-PCR had comparable sensitivities for detection of enterovirus RNA, and both molecular methods were more sensitive than culture, which detected only 60.5% of positive samples. NASBA could be completed in 6.5 h versus 9 h for the Argene Biosoft RT-PCR kit.
Febrile seizures (FSs) are the most common type of convulsions in childhood and complex FSs represent an increased risk for development of temporal lobe epilepsy. The aim of this study was to analyze the anticonvulsant effects of carnosine, an endogenous dipeptide composed of alanine and histidine, on hyperthermia induced seizure in immature mice. Injection of carnosine significantly increased the latency and decreased the duration of FSs in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, histidine had similar effects on FSs as carnosine. The protective effect of carnosine or histidine was completely abolished by alpha-fluoromethylhistidine (alpha-FMH), a selective and irreversible histidine decarboxylase inhibitor, or in histidine decarboxylase deficient (HDC-KO) mice. Peripheral carnosine administration increased the level of carnosine, histidine and histamine in the cortex and hippocampus of mice pups, but decreased glutamate contents in the cortex and hippocampus. These results indicate that carnosine can protect against FSs in mice pups through its conversion to histamine, suggesting that it may serve as an efficient anti-FSs drug in the future.
There are significant challenges in developing in vitro human tissue and tumor models that can be used to support new drug development and evaluate personalized therapeutics. The challenges include: (1) working with primary cells which are often difficult to maintain ex vivo, (2) mimicking native microenvironments from which primary cells are harvested, and (3) the lack of culture devices that can support these microenvironments to evaluate drug responses in a high-throughput manner. Here we report a versatile well plate-based perfusion culture device that was designed, fabricated and used to: (1) ascertain the role of perfusion in facilitating the expansion of human multiple myeloma cells and evaluate drug response of the cells, (2) preserve the physiological phenotype of primary murine osteocytes by reconstructing the 3D cellular network of osteocytes, and (3) circulate primary murine T cells through a layer of primary murine intestine epithelial cells to recapitulate the interaction of the immune cells with the epithelial cells. Through these diverse case studies, we demonstrate the device's design features to support: (1) the convenient and spatiotemporal placement of cells and biomaterials into the culture wells of the device; (2) the replication of tissues and tumor microenvironments using perfusion, stromal cells, and/or biomaterials; (3) the circulation of non-adherent cells through the culture chambers; and (4) conventional tissue and cell characterization by plate reading, histology, and flow cytometry. Future challenges are identified and discussed from the perspective of manufacturing the device and making its operation for routine and wide use.
Solar cells containing upconversion nanoparticles (UCNPs) used as a power source in biomedical nanosystems have attracted great interest. However, such solar cells further need to be developed because their substrate materials should be biocompatible, flexible and highly luminescent. Here, we report that freestanding silk fibroin (SF) films containing a mesh of silver nanowires (AgNWs) and beta-NaYF4:Yb,Er nanocrystals with metal-enhanced fluorescence behavior can be fabricated. The freestanding composite films exhibit properties such as good optical transparency, conductivity and flexibility. Furthermore, they show significantly enhanced upconversion fluorescence due to surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) of AgNWs compared to the SF-UCNP films without AgNWs. The freestanding composite films with metal-enhanced fluorescence behavior show great promise for future applications in self-powered nanodevices such as cardiac pacemakers, biosensors and nanorobots.
The human disease in its biological foundation must be congruent with the normal processes of the life and explicable by these. The simplified view on disease in the past with the reduction on its biological and physico-chemical course seems to become more and more insufficient and limiting to a comprehensive understanding. The discussion of the concept of disease from the standpoint of the epistomology needs in consequence of the so called new thinking the integrated inclusion of the systems theory, the theory of chaos and the concept of layers by Riedl. Taking this in the consideration a comprehensive understanding of disease is given. This allows to take into account as well its evolutionary conditionality, its human being as its individual, group, population and species specific characteristics. This kind of view emphasizes the necessity to complete the pragmatic reductionism by a comprehensive sight. In the consequence of such a thinking it seems easier to recognize the with the increasing complexity of the living beings emergent laws.
Signal transduction in B cells is mediated, in part, by the interaction of the cytoplasmic components of the antigen receptor complex and various members of the src family tyrosine kinases. Key to this process appears to be the interaction of the tyrosine kinase SH2 domains with the tyrosine-phosphorylated cytoplasmic domain of Ig-alpha, a disulfide-bonded heterodimeric (with Ig-beta or Ig-gamma) transmembrane protein that noncovalently associates with the antigen receptor immunoglobin chains. In addition to binding to the phosphorylated cytoplasmic domains of Ig-alpha and Ig-beta, blk and fyn(T), two members of the src family kinases, have been shown to bind overlapping but distinct sets of phosphoproteins [Malek & Desiderio (1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268. 22557-22565]. A comparison of their three-dimensional structures may elucidate the apparently subtle differences required for phosphoprotein discrimination. To begin characterizing the blk/fyn/phosphosphoprotein interactions, we have determined the three-dimensional solution structure of the SH2 domain of blk kinase by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. 1H, 13C, and 15N resonances of the SH2 domain of blk kinase were assigned by analysis of multidimensional, double- and triple-resonance NMR experiments. Twenty structures of the blk SH2 domain were refined with the program X-PLOR using a total of 2080 experimentally derived conformational restraints. The structures converged to a root-mean-squared (rms) distance deviation of 0.51 and 0.95 A for the backbone atoms and for the non-hydrogen atoms, respectively. The blk SH2 domain adopts the prototypical SH2 fold. Structurally, blk SH2 is most similar to the crystal structure of the v-src SH2 domain [Waksman et al. (1993) Nature 358.646-653] and superimposes on the crystal structure with an rmsd of 1.52 A for the backbone atoms. The largest deviations occur in the four loops interconnecting beta-strands A-E, which are the least well-defined regions in the NMR structure. Exclusion of these loops lowers this rmsd to 0.82 A. The conformation of the BC loop in the blk SH2 domain is similar to the open conformation in the apo lck SH2 domain, suggesting that, like the lck SH2 domain, the blk SH2 domain may have a gated phosphopeptide binding site. Finally, it is proposed that the amino acid substitution of Lys 88 (blk) for Glu [fyn(T)] is important for the observed differences in specificity between blk and fyn(T) SH2 domains.
Here, the genome sequence of the ectomycorrhizal basidiomycete Laccaria bicolorwas explored with the aim of constructing a genome-wide inventory of genes involved in fatty acid metabolism. Sixty-three genes of the major pathways were annotated and validated by the detection of the corresponding transcripts. Seventy-one per cent belonged to multigene families of up to five members. In the mycelium of L. bicolor, 19 different fatty acids were detected, including at low concentrations palmitvaccenic acid (16:1(11Z)), which is known to be a marker for arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. The pathways of fatty acid biosynthesis and degradation in L. bicolor were reconstructed using lipid composition, gene annotation and transcriptional analysis. Annotation results indicated that saturated fatty acids were degraded in mitochondria, whereas degradation of modified fatty acids was confined to peroxisomes. Fatty acid synthase (FAS) was the second largest protein annotated in L. bicolor. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that L. bicolor, Ustilago maydis and Coprinopsis cinerea have a vertebrate-like type I FAS encoded as a single protein, whereas in other basidiomycetes, including the human pathogenic basidiomycete Cryptococcus neoformans, and in most ascomycetes FAS is composed of the two structurally distinct subunits alpha and beta.
Several Aspergillus species, in particular Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus oryzae, are widely used as protein production hosts in various biotechnological applications. In order to improve the expression and secretion of recombinant proteins in these filamentous fungi, several novel genetic engineering strategies have been developed in recent years. This review describes state-of-the-art genetic manipulation technologies used for strain improvement, as well as recent advances in designing the most appropriate engineering strategy for a particular protein production process. Furthermore, current developments in identifying bottlenecks in the protein production and secretion pathways are described and novel approaches to overcome these limitations are introduced. An appropriate combination of expression vectors and optimized host strains will provide cell factories customized for each production process and expand the great potential of Aspergilli as biotechnology workhorses to more complex multi-step industrial applications.
Significant advances have occurred in the knowledge of the pathogenesis of ARDS. It is now recognized that ARDS is a manifestation of a diffuse process that results from a complicated cascade of events following an initial insult or injury. Mechanical ventilation and PEEP are still important components of supportive therapy. To avoid ventilator-associated lung injury there is emphasis on targeting ventilator management based on measurement of pulmonary mechanics. For those with resistant hypoxia and severe pulmonary hypertension adjunctive modalities, such as prone positioning and low-dose iNO, may provide important benefit. Alternative modes of supporting gas exchange, such as with partial liquid ventilation and extracorporeal gas-exchange, may serve as rescue therapies. Advances in cell and molecular biology have contributed to a better understanding of the role of inflammatory cells and mediators that contribute to the acute lung injury and the pathophysiology of the syndrome that manifests as ARDS. Based on this new understanding, the potential targets for intervention to ameliorate the systemic inflammatory response have proliferated. Examples include the cytokine network and its receptors, antioxidants, and endothelins. Apart from the challenge of testing these agents in experimental models, it seems likely that determination of the optimum combination of agents will become an equally important endeavor. A particular challenge is to develop better methods of predicting which of the many at-risk patients will go on to full-blown ARDS and MODS, thereby targeting subgroups of patients most likely to benefit from anti-inflammatory therapies. Similarly, the adverse effects of immunosuppressive therapy may be diminished by improved, perhaps molecular, techniques to detect microbial pathogens and permit differentiation between Systemic inflammatory response syndrome and sepsis.
Poly(ethylene glycol)-grafted poly(3-hydroxyundecenoate) (PEG-g-PHU) networks were prepared by irradiating homogeneous solutions of poly(3-hydroxyundecenoate) (PHU) and the monoacrylate of poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) with UV light. The resulting polymer networks were characterized by measuring the water contact angle, water uptake, and mechanical properties and by performing attenuated total reflectance infrared spectroscopy and scanning electron microscopy. These measurements showed that the PEG chains were present in polymer networks. Adsorption of blood proteins and platelets on cross-linked PHU (CLPHU) and PEG-g-PHU were examined using poly(L-lactide) (PLLA) surfaces as control. Blood proteins and platelets had significantly lower tendency of adhesion to surfaces composed of CLPHU and PEG-g-PHU networks than to PLLA. Blood compatibility of polymer networks increased as the fraction of grafted PEG increased. The results of this study suggest that PEG-g-PHU networks might be useful for blood-compatible biomedical applications.
Supreme Court decisions have liberalized a woman's right to decide whether to obtain an abortion. Some state and local governments have tried to circumvent these decisions by enacting requirements designed to discourage abortions by, among other things, dictating to physicians an elaborate litany of specific information that must be communicated to a patient as a necessary precondition of her informed consent for an abortion. This article discusses the legal status of such requirements, their implications for the professional autonomy of physicians, and the role of the medical profession in challenging these restrictions, on its own behalf and in concert with its patients.
OBJECTIVE: The present study aimed to investigate whether graded doses of Bacopa Monniera (BM) extract could produce antidepressant-like effects in chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) induced depression in rats and its possible mechanism(s). METHODS: Rats were subjected to an experimental setting of CUS. The effect of BM extract treatment in CUS-induced depression was examined using behavioral tests including the sucrose consumption, open field test and shuttle box escape test. The mechanism underlying the antidepressant-like action of BM extract was examined by measuring brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein and mRNA expression in brain tissues of CUS-exposed rats. RESULTS: Exposure to CUS for 4 weeks caused depression-like behavior in rats, as indicated by significant decreases in sucrose consumption, locomotor activity and escape latency. In addition, it was found that BDNF protein and mRNA levels in the hippocampus and frontal cortex were lower in CUS-treated rats, as compared to controls. Daily administration of the graded doses of BM extract during the 4-week period of CUS significantly suppressed behavioral changes and attenuated the CUS-induced decrease in BDNF protein and mRNA levels in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. CONCLUSION: The results suggest that BM extract alleviates depression induced by CUS. Present study also confirms that 80-120 mg/kg doses of BM extract have significantly higher antidepressant-like activity.
Experimental studies have suggested different effects of various fats on blood pressure. However, epidemiologic evidence of these relations remains limited and inconsistent. We therefore assessed the association of fatty acid (FA) composition in erythrocyte membranes with the risk of hypertension. We selected 516 cases of incident hypertension and 516 matched controls during 12.9 y of follow-up in the Women's Health Study. Erythrocyte FA was measured in baseline bloods using GC. After controlling matching factors and lifestyle factors, erythrocyte SFA showed a positive association, whereas total cis PUFA, cis (n-3) PUFA, and the ratio of PUFA:SFA (PS ratio) showed an inverse association with the risk of hypertension. The multivariable RR of hypertension across the increasing quartiles of erythrocyte FA subtypes were 1.00, 1.19, 1.44, and 1.76 for total SFA; 1.00, 0.84, 0.88, and 0.56 for total cis PUFA; 1.00, 0.87, 0.66, and 0.65 for cis (n-3) PUFA; and 1.00, 0.99, 0.70, and 0.51 for the PS ratio. After further adjusting for obesity-related metabolic factors, these associations were attenuated and remained significant only for the PS ratio. cis MUFA, cis (n-6) PUFA, and trans unsaturated FA in erythrocyte membranes were not associated with the risk of hypertension. Our study showed that FA composition in erythrocyte membranes is associated with the risk of hypertension in middle-aged and older women. However, after controlling for obesity-related metabolic factors, the associations remained significant only for the PS ratio.
alpha-Pinene oxide is an intermediate in the degradation of alpha-pinene by Nocardia sp. strain P18.3 and some Pseudomonas strains. The epoxide is cleaved by a lyase which catalyzes a concerted reaction in which both rings of the bicyclic structure are cleaved with the formation of cis-2-methyl-5-isopropylhexa-2,5-dienal. The enzyme has been purified to homogeneity from Nocardia sp. strain P18.3. It was induced by growth with alpha-pinene and constituted 6 to 7% of the soluble protein of cell extracts. The apparent molecular weight of the native enzyme was 50,000 by ultracentrifugal analysis. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gave two dissimilar subunits with apparent molecular weights of 17,000 and 22,000. The enzyme was devoid of prosthetic groups, had no cofactor requirement, and had a broad pH activity range, a Km for alpha-pinene oxide of 9 microM, and a turnover number of 15,000. Inhibitors included sulfhydryl reactive compounds, terpene epoxides, and pinane derivatives with substituent groups at carbon 3. A mechanism for the concerted reaction has been proposed in which decyclization is initiated by donation of a proton from the catalytic center to the oxygen of the epoxide with consequent destabilization. In vitro the enzyme was inactivated during catalysis, and a reactive cationic intermediate may be responsible for this phenomenon. The enzyme should be classified as a lyase EC 4.99.-.-.
To investigate what viruses are related to acute bacterial respiratory tract infections, we prospectively evaluated 113 cases with respiratory tract infections (always accompanying by purulent sputum) experienced between July 1998 and March 2000. Acute viral infections were detected in 25 cases (22%); 10 cases of influenza A virus and 6 cases of respiratory syncytial (RS) virus. The epidemiology of the influenza A virus and RS virus was mainly identified as from December to February in both winter seasons. A bacteriological examination of sputum cultures isolated 12 cases of Streptococcus pneumoniae and 10 cases of Haemophilus influenzae during the same periods and mixed infections of both viruses and bacteria were recognised in 16 cases (14%). These results suggest a significantly high percentage of mixed infections of both viruses and bacteria. However, it was unknown whether the patients with acute bacterial respiratory infections had been infected with viruses prior to the bacterial infections. The frequency of appearance of respiratory tract infections tended to increase with the seasonale epidemiology of viral infections.
BACKGROUND: The specialization of human fat deposits is an inquiry of special importance in the study of fetal growth. It has been theorized that maternal lower-body fat is designated specifically for lactation and not for the growth of the fetus. OBJECTIVE: Our goal was to compare the contributions of maternal upper-body versus lower-body adiposity to infant birth weight. We hypothesized that upper-body adiposity would be strongly associated with infant birth weight and that lower-body adiposity would be weakly or negligibly associated with infant birth weight-after adjusting for known determinants. STUDY DESIGN: In this prospective cohort study, 355 women initiated medical pre-natal care during the first trimester of pregnancy at The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center during 1990-1993. Maternal anthropometric measurements were assessed at the first clinic visit: (a) height; (b) weight; (c) circumferences of the upper arm, forearm, and thigh; and, (d) skin-fold measurements of the bicep, subscapular region, and thigh. RESULTS: Infant birth weight was regressed on known major determinants to create the foundational model. Maternal anthropometric variables subsequently were added one at a time into this multiple regression model. The highest contribution by a single anthropometric variable to infant birthweight was, in order: subscapular skin-fold, forearm circumference, and thigh circumference. With one upper-body (subscapular skin-fold) and one lower-body (circumference of the thigh) adiposity measure in the model, the z-score regression coefficient (s.e.) was 85.7g (30.8) [p=0.0057] for maternal subscapular skin-fold and 19.0g (31.6) [p=0.5477] for circumference of the thigh. When the second-best upper-body contributor to infant birthweight (circumference of the forearm) was entered with one lower-body measure into the model, the z-score regression coefficient (s.e.) was 77.5g (38.5) [p=0.0451] for maternal forearm circumference and 14.1g (38.5) [p=0.7146] for circumference of the thigh. When both subscapular skinfold and forearm circumference were added to the model in place of BMI, the explained variance (r2=0.5478) was similar to the model using BMI (r2=0.5487). CONCLUSION: Upper-body adiposity - whether operationalized by subscapular skin-fold or circumference of the forearm - was a markedly larger determinant of infant birth weight than lower-body adiposity.
Natural phenanthrene derivatives are considered to be important resource for the anti-inflammatory therapeutics, but their structure-activity relationship and mechanisms are still unknown. In this study we evaluated 20 synthesized phenanthrene analogs in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages. Compounds 10, 11 and 17 were found to inhibit the production of nitric oxide (NO) with IC50 values of 37.26muM, 5.05muM and 20.31muM, respectively. Compound 11 decreased LPS-induced expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS), inhibited phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and serine/threonine kinase Akt. It also suppressed the phosphorylation and degradation of inhibitory kappa B-alpha (IkappaBalpha). Data obtained suggest that compound 11 exerts anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting p38 MAPK and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathways, which warrants further investigation as a new anti-inflammatory pharmaceutical tool.
This manuscript presents the beginning portions of a research project as well as a critique of the design and methods. Although it is not a complete proposal, this article may given those readers who are thinking of doing research some idea of how easy it is to make fatal flaws in the design of a project. Suggestions for how a research novice might avoid these classic mistakes are made.
Monoclonal IgG-containing type II cryoglobulins (CG) from 25 patients, most affected with autoimmune or inflammatory diseases, were characterized using a Western blotting procedure. Rheumatoid factors were measured by ELISA. Out of the 25 type II CG, 14 contained a single monoclonal IgG and 11 contained several distinct monoclonal Ig, as assessed by the electrophoretic mobility and isotypy of the narrow bands. Comparison of blots revealed by anti-IgG subclass antibodies in the patients' sera and CG showed a clear-cut enrichment of CG in both polyclonal and monoclonal IgG1 and IgG3. All monoclonal IgG in the CG belonged to the IgG1 or IgG3 subclasses. CG also contained more detectable RF of the IgM class than did the corresponding sera. Using conventional methods, the present CG either could not be typed or were all (immunoelectrophoresis) or often (immunofixation) classified as type III. The results challenge the classical classification of CG and show the necessity of the use of sensitive techniques for immunochemical characterization of mixed CG.
In this report, we show that the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein Tpa1p (for termination and polyadenylation) influences translation termination efficiency, mRNA poly(A) tail length, and mRNA stability. Tpa1p is encoded by the previously uncharacterized open reading frame YER049W. Yeast strains carrying a deletion of the TPA1 gene (tpa1Delta) exhibited increased readthrough of stop codons, and coimmunoprecipitation assays revealed that Tpa1p interacts with the translation termination factors eRF1 and eRF3. In addition, the tpa1Delta mutation led to a 1.5- to 2-fold increase in the half-lives of mRNAs degraded by the general 5'-->3' pathway or the 3'-->5' nonstop decay pathway. In contrast, this mutation did not have any affect on the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay pathway. Examination of mRNA poly(A) tail length revealed that poly(A) tails are longer than normal in a tpa1Delta strain. Consistent with a potential role in regulating poly(A) tail length, Tpa1p was also found to coimmunoprecipitate with the yeast poly(A) binding protein Pab1p. These results suggest that Tpa1p is a component of a messenger ribonucleoprotein complex bound to the 3' untranslated region of mRNAs that affects translation termination, deadenylation, and mRNA decay.
Cell death is associated with the development of the plant disease resistance hypersensitive reaction (HR). Arabidopsis lsd mutants that spontaneously exhibit cell death reminiscent of the HR were identified previously. To study further the regulatory context in which cell death acts during disease resistance, one of these mutants, lsd5, was used to isolate new mutations that suppress its cell death phenotype. Using a simple lethal screen, nine lsd5 cell death suppressors, designated phx (for the mythological bird Phoenix that rises from its ashes), were isolated. These mutants were characterized with respect to their response to a bacterial pathogen and oomycete parasite. The strongest suppressors-phx2, 3, 6, and 11-1-showed complex, differential patterns of disease resistance modifications. These suppressors attenuated disease resistance to avirulent isolates of the biotrophic Peronospora parasitica pathogen, but only phx2 and phx3 altered disease resistance to avirulent strains of Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato. Therefore, some of these phx mutants define common regulators of cell death and disease resistance. In addition, phx2 and phx3 exhibited enhanced disease susceptibility to different virulent pathogens, confirming probable links between the disease resistance and susceptibility pathways.
Direct lineage reprogramming through genetic-based strategies enables the conversion of differentiated somatic cells into functional neurons and distinct neuronal subtypes. Induced dopaminergic (iDA) neurons can be generated by direct conversion of skin fibroblasts; however, their in vivo phenotypic and functional properties remain incompletely understood, leaving their impact on Parkinson's disease (PD) cell therapy and modeling uncertain. Here, we determined that iDA neurons retain a transgene-independent stable phenotype in culture and in animal models. Furthermore, transplanted iDA neurons functionally integrated into host neuronal tissue, exhibiting electrically excitable membranes, synaptic currents, dopamine release, and substantial reduction of motor symptoms in a PD animal model. Neuronal cell replacement approaches will benefit from a system that allows the activity of transplanted neurons to be controlled remotely and enables modulation depending on the physiological needs of the recipient; therefore, we adapted a DREADD (designer receptor exclusively activated by designer drug) technology for remote and real-time control of grafted iDA neuronal activity in living animals. Remote DREADD-dependent iDA neuron activation markedly enhanced the beneficial effects in transplanted PD animals. These data suggest that iDA neurons have therapeutic potential as a cell replacement approach for PD and highlight the applicability of pharmacogenetics for enhancing cellular signaling in reprogrammed cell-based approaches.
Examination of cell-free culture supernatants revealed that Legionella pneumophila strains secrete an endoglucanase activity. Legionella pneumophila lspF mutants were deficient for this activity, indicating that the endoglucanase is secreted by the bacterium's type II protein secretion (T2S) system. Inactivation of celA, encoding a member of the family-5 of glycosyl hydrolases, abolished the endoglucanase activity in L. pneumophila culture supernatants. The cloned celA gene conferred activity upon recombinant Escherichia coli. Thus, CelA is the major secreted endoglucanase of L. pneumophila. Mutants inactivated for celA grew normally in protozoa and macrophage, indicating that CelA is not required for the intracellular phase of L. pneumophila. The CelA endoglucanase is one of at least 25 proteins secreted by the type II system of L. pneumophila and the 17th type of enzyme effector associated with this pathway. Only a subset of the other Legionella species tested expressed secreted endoglucanase activity, suggesting that the T2S output differs among the different legionellae. Overall, this study represents the first documentation of an endoglucanase (EC 3.2.1.4) being produced by a strain of Legionella.
A new scalarane sesterterpene, sesterstamide (1), together with four known sesterterpenes (2-5), were isolated from the Paracel Islands marine sponge Hyrtios sp. The chemical structures were established on the basis of spectroscopic analysis and comparison with known compounds. The cytotoxic and antileishmanial activities of the isolated compounds were also evaluated.
A total number of 78 foodborne botulism cases were registered in Poland in 2003, (incidence rate 0.20 per 100 000 population), in rural areas--46 cases (incidence 0.31) and in urban areas--32 cases (incidence 0.14). There were noted 48 sporadic cases, 8 outbreaks of two persons and 1 outbreak of three, four and five people. Meat dishes were the main vehicle of botulinum toxin, especially home made bottling jars prepared from pork meat (24.4% of cases). Two deaths from foodborne botulism were registered.
Tobacco possesses two distinct classes of O-methyltransferases (OMTs; S-adenosyl-L-methionine:o-diphenol O-methyltransferases; EC 2.1.1.6). Here we report on the cloning and the expression pattern of the class I OMT that is specifically involved in lignin biosynthesis. Near-full-length cDNAs have been isolated from tobacco libraries constructed from leaf and stem poly(A)+ RNA. Sequence analysis demonstrated that the OMT I clones derived from two different mRNA species. The two types of OMT I mRNA were reverse transcribed from total RNA and the cDNAs were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and characterized by restriction analysis. The same proportion of the two transcripts was measured in stem tissue of healthy plants and in leaves reacting hypersensitively to tobacco mosaic virus, indicating a coordinate expression of the two OMT I genes. Consistently, genomic hybridization indicated the presence of two OMT I genes in the amphidiploid genome of tobacco. The pattern of expression of OMT I genes was studied by in situ mRNA hybridization. In stem, petiole, and root tissues, OMT I genes were found to be specifically expressed in vascular cells and epidermis. In healthy leaves OMT I mRNA was only detected in vascular strands, whereas, in leaves bearing tobacco mosaic virus-induced necrotic lesions, a particularly strong accumulation of the labeling was also localized in the upper and lower epidermis.
AIM: To determine the phenotype and genotype of NAT2 in a Chinese population and study the influence of various NAT2 genotypes on the NAT2 activity. METHODS: A reverse dot blot method was used to detect the genotype of NAT2 in 120 healthy Chinese subjects. All subjects were given a single dose of 500 mg sulphadimidine (SM(2)). The plasma concentration of SM(2) and acetyl-SM(2) (AcSM(2)) 6 h after administration was determined. Molar metabolic ratio (MR) was calculated by the ratio of AcSM(2) to AcSM(2)+SM(2). RESULTS: Totals of 53 (44.2%), 47 (39.2%) and 20 (16.7%) subjects were homozygotes for wild type (wt/wt), heterozygotes for mutant (m/wt) and homozygotes for mutant (m/m), respectively. The MR of 120 subjects was 0.714+/-0.237. Twenty subjects (16.7%) were classified as poor metabolizers. All subjects in the m/m group were poor metabolizers. The MRs of the wt/wt, m/wt and m/m groups were 0.886+/-0.060, 0.719+/-0.089 and 0.246+/-0.105 (P<0.001), respectively. There was a significant difference between different NAT2 m/wt genotypes (P<0.001) and m/m genotypes (P<0.001). MR correlated well with NAT2 genotypes (r=0.947). CONCLUSION: Various NAT2 genotypes have a significant impact on the metabolic activity of NAT2 in Chinese people.
This study was performed to test the hypothesis that genetic variation in the promoter of the glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2) might predispose to prediabetic phenotypes or type 2 diabetes. A total of 1611 bp comprising the minimal promoter region of the GLUT2 gene were examined by combined single-strand conformational polymorphism and heteroduplex analysis followed by direct sequencing of identified variants on genomic DNA from 96 randomly recruited Danish type 2 diabetic patients. We identified 4 nucleotide variants, -447g-->a, -149c-->a, -122t-->c, and -44g-->a. None of the variants were positioned in known or presumed transcription factor binding sites, TATA-box, or transcriptional start site. Association studies of the -149c-->a, -122t-->c, and -44g-->a variants revealed that the variants were as prevalent in 320 type 2 diabetic patients [11.0% (95% confidence interval, 8.4-13.6), 9.8% (7.4-12.2), and 29.0% (24.4-33.6), respectively] as in 241 age-matched glucose-tolerant subjects [13.1% (9.8-16.4), 11.2% (8.3-14.1), and 33.4% (28.8-38.0), respectively]. The -447g-->a mutation was only identified in a single diabetic patient and did not show cosegregation with diabetes in the family of the proband. The three common variants showed in a primary genotype-phenotype study comprising 241 glucose-tolerant middle-aged subjects association to increased plasma glucose levels during an oral glucose tolerance test. However, this result could not be replicated in a second sample of 298 60-yr-old glucose-tolerant subjects. In conclusion, we found no evidence supporting the hypothesis that genetic variability in the minimal promoter of the GLUT2 is associated with type 2 diabetes or prediabetic phenotypes in the Danish population.
INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: COLIA1 polymorphism is associated with increased risk for stress urinary incontinence. We hypothesize that a similar association exists with pelvic organ prolapse (POP). METHODS: Patients with advanced prolapse and healthy controls were evaluated by interview, validated questionnaires, and pelvic examination. DNA was extracted from peripheral blood, and polymerase chain reaction was performed to determine the presence or absence of the polymorphism. Power calculation indicated the need for 36 patients in each arm. RESULTS: The prevalence of the polymorphic heterozygous genotype (GT) in the study and control groups was 33.3% and 19.4%, respectively, leading to an odds ratio of 1.75. This difference, however, did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.27). CONCLUSIONS: The COLIA1 polymorphism was not significantly associated with increased risk for POP.
Castor (Ricinus communis L.) is an important oil seed crop having its main cultivated area in India, China, and Brazil in dry land farming. Castor husk is generated as waste in castor oil production. Use of castor husk waste as substrate is studied for alkaline protease production by Bacillus altitudinis GVC11 in solid-state fermentation. Various parameters like moisture content, incubation period, particle size, effect of carbon and nitrogen sources are studied and optimized for enzyme production. Highest enzyme production of 419,293 units per gram husk is obtained. Cost of enzyme production can be reduced by using castor husk as substrate.
Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is considered to be a chronic antigen-driven disease whereby food and/or aeroallergens induce a chronic inflammatory infiltrate in the esophagus, resulting in pathological hyperplasia of the epithelia and muscular layers, and fibrosis of the lamina propria (referred to collectively as remodelling) and the symptoms of dysphagia and food impaction. EoE shares features with other atopic conditions of asthma and atopic dermatitis, such as a TH2 cytokine milieu and a mixed inflammatory infiltrate of eosinophils, mast cells and lymphocytes. Relatively distinct features include the strong male predominance amongst adult patients, and the expression of the eosinophil chemokine eotaxin 3. Current first line treatments such as strict dietary modification and corticosteroids fail many patients. Looking forward, clarification of distinct genotype/phenotype associations, determining the reversibility of remodelling following treatment, and the development of new pharmacotherapies that target fibrotic pathways (as opposed to eosinophilic inflammation per se) or specifically improve barrier integrity appear relevant.
The safety, feasibility, and hemodynamic effects of mild hypothermia (MH) induced by transnasal cooling were studied in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). MH is a common therapy following cardiac arrest and seems to have favorable effects in myocardial infarction and on hemodynamic stability. In TAVR, hemodynamic instability is common during rapid pacing. Twenty subjects undergoing TAVR were randomized 1:1 to hypothermia or normothermia. Hemodynamic endpoints were mean arterial blood pressure and required dosage of vasoactive and inotropic drugs. Patients were followed up at 6 months. All patients in the MH group (n=10) reached the target temperature of 34 degrees C before first rapid pacing. Tympanic and urinary bladder temperature remained significantly lower in the MH group during the procedure. No adverse effects of cooling were observed. Mean arterial pressure was higher in the MH group (90+/-20 mm Hg) than in the control group (71+/-13 mm Hg) at the start of the procedure, at first rapid pacing (94+/-19 vs. 80+/-16 mm Hg), and at balloon aortic valvuloplasty (90+/-17 vs. 73+/-14 mm Hg). Less norepinephrine was administered to the hypothermia group. Transnasal cooling during TAVR was safe and well tolerated. We observed a more stable hemodynamic profile in the MH group, indicated by higher blood pressure and lower levels of vasoactive drugs required. A larger study of patients with severe ventricular dysfunction is required to more comprehensively investigate the hemodynamic effects of transnasal cooling in TAVR.
The slow coronary flow phenomenon (SCF), a condition described by the presence of inappropriate delay in the progression of intracoronary contrast during angiography in the absence of stenoses, has been shown in some patients presenting with chest pain. While several conditions leading to "secondary" slow flow are known, there are no definitive conclusions regarding the exact pathogenesis of "primary" SCF. The present paper outlines the mechanisms that may lead to SCF, emphasizing the role of hemorheological and vascular factors in the pathogenesis of this phenomenon. Small vessel dysfunction has been proposed in the pathogenesis of SCF since the first description of this syndrome in 1972. Abnormalities in coronary microvascular function result from increased microvascular resistances and impaired endothelial release of vasoactive substances, especially in production and bioavailability of endothelium derived NO. Inflammatory conditions (increased levels of C-reactive protein, interleukin-6 and adhesion molecules) and metabolic abnormalities such as impaired glycemic control, hyperuricemia and elevated serum gamma-glutamyltransferase were also found to contribute to microvascular dysfunction in patients with SCF. New studies have also indicated that increased blood viscosity and one of its major determinants, erythrocyte aggregation, is associated with the SCF. Rheological variables play a role in the control of shear stress and contribute to blood flow velocity changes. Although platelets do not have a significant influence on blood viscosity, it has been demonstrated that they are involved in the development of SCF. Increased mean platelet volume (MPV), an indicator of platelet activation and platelet aggregability is also significantly higher in patients with SCF compared with patients with normal coronary flow.
BACKGROUND: Our recent study found the existence of complexes of beta(2)-glycoprotein I (beta(2)-GPI) with lipoprotein(a)[Lp(a)] in circulation and the complex concentrations were increased in sera of systemic lupus erythematosus patients. The concentration of beta(2)-GPI-Lp(a) and its relationship with premature atherosclerosis were evaluated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. METHODS: Serum concentrations of beta(2)-GPI-Lp(a) were measured in 53 active RA patients and 40 healthy controls by a "sandwich" ELISA. beta(2)-GPI-ox-LDL, ox-Lp(a), ox-LDL and anti-beta(2)-GPI were also measured by ELISAs. In addition, inflammatory markers were examined. RESULTS: Serum beta(2)-GPI-Lp(a) (1.12+/-0.25 U/ml vs. 0.87+/-0.19 U/ml, P<0.0001) and beta(2)-GPI-ox-LDL (1.01+/-0.20 U/ml vs. 0.80+/-0.08 U/ml, P<0.0001) concentrations in RA were both significantly higher than those of controls. Ox-Lp(a) (8.38+/-6.69 mg/l vs. 5.49+/-4.31 mg/l, P<0.05) and ox-LDL (0.68+/-0.65 mg/l vs. 0.37+/-0.13 mg/l, P=0.001) were also higher in RA than in controls. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) for beta(2)-GPI-Lp(a) (0.787) was larger than for ox-Lp(a) (0.731). AUC of beta(2)-GPI-ox-LDL (0.858) was also larger than for ox-LDL (0.785). beta(2)-GPI-Lp(a) and beta(2)-GPI-ox-LDL were positively correlated with ox-Lp(a), ox-LDL and CRP, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: beta(2)-GPI-Lp(a) complex concentrations increased in active RA. Inflammation and oxidative stress in RA contribute to the increase of ox-Lp(a) and subsequently the formation of beta(2)-GPI-Lp(a).
Aripiprazole is an antipsychotic that acts as a partial agonist at dopamine receptors. As the effects of most drugs of abuse converge to enhance dopamine-mediated neurotransmission, the present study was designed to test the hypothesis that aripiprazole would inhibit the acute effects of ethanol, a widely abused substance. Male Swiss mice received acute injections and were evaluated for motor activity in three distinct tests. In the open field, ethanol (1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 g/kg) induced an increase in locomotion in a U-shaped dose-related fashion, whereas aripiprazole (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) did not affect this parameter. All the doses of the antipsychotic were able to prevent the stimulant effects of 2.5 g/kg of ethanol. In the rotarod test, ethanol (2.5 and 3.5 g/kg) reduced the latency to fall from the apparatus, an effect also observed with the higher dose of aripiprazole. Contrary to what was observed in the open field, this antipsychotic did not interfere with the effects of ethanol in motor balance. Finally, we tested animals in the wire hang test, in which ethanol, but not aripiprazole, reduced latency to fall at all doses. In this test, aripiprazole did not change ethanol effects. The present data lead to the conclusion that aripiprazole prevents the stimulant effects of ethanol on locomotion, without interfering with the motor impairment induced by this drug.
Maslinic acid is a triterpenoid compound present in plants of Olea europaea. This compound has been reported to have potent antioxidant, anti-cancer, anti-HIV and anti-inflammatory activities. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of maslinic acid and its mechanism of action. With presence or absence of maslinic acid, cortical neurons were subjected to 1h of oxygen-glucose deprivation and 24h of reoxygenation. Cell injury was determined by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) measurement and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Neuronal apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry assay, caspase-3 expression/activity, caspase-9 activity and Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Nitric Oxide (NO) production and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression were also detected. Results showed that maslinic acid dose-dependently ameliorated neuron injury and apoptosis. Maslinic acid treatment normalized the caspase expression/activation and increased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio. In addition, maslinic acid inhibited oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced NO production and iNOS expression. These results indicated that maslinic acid has beneficial effects on hypoxic neurons by suppressing iNOS activation, which may, in turn, provide neuroprotection.
In vertebrate rod cells, the activated alpha-subunit of rod transducin interacts with the gamma (regulatory) subunits of phosphodiesterase to disinhibit the catalytic subunits. A 22-amino acid long region of rod transducin involved in phosphodiesterase activation has recently been identified. We have used peptides from this region of rod transducin and from several other G protein alpha-subunits to study the nature and specificity of the G protein alpha-effector interaction. Although peptides derived from rod transducin, cone transducin and gustducin are similar, only the rod peptide is capable of activating rod phosphodiesterase. Using substituted peptides we have identified five residues on one exposed face of rod transducin as important to phosphodiesterase activation. These results disagree with previous models which propose that loop regions of rod transducin interact with phosphodiesterase gamma.
Gastric cancer is one of the most frequent malignancies and its treatment is far from satisfactory. The challenge to oncologists is the characterization of novel chemical entities with greater effectiveness. Prodigiosin is a red pigment produced by various bacteria including Serratia marcescens. Here we characterize the apoptotic action of prodigiosin in human gastric carcinoma cell line (HGT-1). Cells were assayed by the MTT assay, fragmentation pattern of DNA, Hoechst 33342 staining and study of actin microfilament architecture. Treatment of these cells with prodigiosin showed a constant decrease in viability by apoptosis. Morphological analysis of prodigiosin-treated cells demonstrated that prodigiosin induces cell shrinkage, chromatin condensation, reorganization of actin microfilament architecture, and detachment of cells from the cell culture substrate. Altogether these results suggest that prodigiosin induces apoptosis in HGT-1 human gastric cancer cells and raises the possibility of its use as a new chemotherapeutic drug.
Skin and soft-tissue abscesses, a common problem among injection drug users (IDUs), result in serious morbidity for the patient and costly hospitalizations for incision and drainage; however, there has been little etiologic or preventive epidemiologic research on this problem. We performed a case-control study that enrolled 151 IDUs who had been given a new diagnosis of abscess requiring incision and drainage (cases) and 267 IDUs who did not have abscess or other bacterial infection during the previous year and who were stratum-matched to cases according to age, sex, and race (controls). Subcutaneous or intramuscular, instead of intravenous, injection is a major risk factor for abscess among IDUs. The injection of a cocaine and heroin mixture, or "speedball," may predispose patients to develop abscess by inducing soft-tissue ischemia. Cleaning the skin with alcohol before injection was found to have a protective effect. Neither human immunodeficiency virus nor human T-lymphotropic virus type II seropositivity was significantly associated with abscess.
Fine scale spatial structure (FSSS) of cytoplasmic genes in plants is thought to be generated via founder events and can be amplified when seeds germinate close to their mother. In gynodioecious species these processes are expected to generate FSSS in sex ratio because maternally inherited cytoplasmic male sterility genes partially influence sex expression. Here we document a striking example of FSSS in both mitochondrial genetic markers and sex in roadside populations of Silene vulgaris. We show that in one population FSSS of sexes influences relative fruit production of females compared to hermaphrodites. Furthermore, FSSS in sex ratio is expected to persist into future generations because offspring sex ratios from females are female-biased whereas offspring sex ratios from hermaphrodites are hermaphrodite-biased. Earlier studies indicated that pollen limitation is the most likely mechanism underlying negative frequency dependent fitness of females. Our results support the theoretical predictions that FSSS in sex ratio can reduce female fitness by decreasing the frequency at which females experience hermaphrodites. We argue that the influence of FSSS on female fitness is complementary to the influence of larger scale population structure on female fitness, and that population structure at both scales will act to decrease female frequencies in gynodioecious species. Better comprehension of the spatial structure of genders and genes controlling sex expression at a local scale is required for future progress toward understanding sex ratio evolution in gynodioecious plants.
Cervical disc arthroplasty (CDA) has been gaining popularity as a surgical alternative to anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. Spontaneous fusion following a CDA is uncommon. A few anecdotal reports of heterotrophic ossification around the implant sites have been noted for the BRYAN, ProDisc-C, Mobi-C, PRESTIGE, and PCM devices. All CDA fusions reported to date have been in devices that are semiconstrained. The authors reported the case of a 56-year-old man who presented with left C-7 radiculopathy and neck pain for 10 weeks after an assault injury. There was evidence of disc herniation at the C6-7 level. He was otherwise healthy with functional scores on the visual analog scale (VAS, 4.2); neck disability index (NDI, 16); and the 36-item short form health survey (SF-36; physical component summary [PSC] score 43 and mental component summary [MCS] score 47). The patient underwent total disc replacement in which the DISCOVER Artificial Cervical Disc (DePuy Spine, Inc.) was used. The patient was seen at regular follow-up visits up to 60 months. At his 60-month follow-up visit, he had complete radiographic fusion at the C6-7 level with bridging trabecular bone and no motion at the index site on dynamic imaging. He was pain free, with a VAS score of 0, NDI score of 0, and SF-36 PCS and MCS scores of 61 and 55, respectively. Conclusions This is the first case report that identifies the phenomenon of fusion around a nonconstrained cervical prosthesis. Despite this unwanted radiographic outcome, the patient's clinical outcome was excellent.
Phytoplasmas are associated with several hundred plant diseases worldwide, including numerous ones with important economical impact. Control of epidemic outbreak of phytoplasma diseases can be theoretically carried out by antibiotics. However, they are expensive, not allowed or prohibited in several countries, and even not always efficient. Presently, effective but safe antimicrobial agents are needed to control severe phytoplasma diseases in field. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the susceptibility of 'Candidatus Phytoplasma mali' to several chemical or synthetic antimicrobial agents. We tested nisin, esculetin, pyrithione and chloramphenicol as molecules having different target activities against micro-organisms. Because of their antimicrobial properties against fungi and bacteria, 4 phyto-essential oils (carvacrol, eugenol, terpineol, alpha-pinene) had also been tested. The activity of these molecules was compared with two antibiotics (tetracycline and enrofloxacin) used as control products. All these compounds were tested in in vitro culture of apples (MM106) infected by 'Ca. P. mall'. All compounds were added to the proliferation medium (modified MS) after autoclaving at 3 concentrations (100, 500, 1,000 ppm), except nisin and pyrithione which were tested at 10, 100 and 500 ppm. Phytoplasma infection was quantified in plant materials by real-time PCR before their transfer and after one or two months of culture in the presence of antimicrobial agents. Primary results showed that phytoplasma were not detectable after one and two months in the presence of pyrithione (at 10 and 100 ppm). Moreover, some other products reduced the concentration of phytoplasma after two months. Shoots died or withered on media enriched with essential oils; that made them impossible to assess, especially when they were used at concentration of 500 and 1,000 ppm.
Familial risk and environmental stress promote the development of alcohol dependence. This study tested two hypotheses: that a family history for alcoholism is associated with (i) a greater stress response and (ii) more effective stress response dampening by alcohol. We studied 29 high-risk subjects with a paternal history of alcoholism (PHA) and 23 family history negative (FHN) controls all aged 18-26 years, who were recruited using a representative sample of the local area population. Psychosocial stress was induced by having subjects deliver a speech and perform mental arithmetics in front of an audience on two separate days, after drinking either placebo or alcohol (0.6 g/kg) in a randomized double-blind crossover design. Plasma cortisol and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) were measured up to 90 min after the test. The stress task induced a phasic increase of both hormones in PHA and FHN subjects during all experimental conditions except in tests where FHN subjects received alcohol during the second day. ACTH secretion was higher in PHA subjects during placebo experiments, but equal to controls after alcohol administration. The alcohol-induced attenuation of ACTH response was statistically significant in PHA, but not FHN, subjects. Cortisol response was higher in PHA than FHN probands if placebo was administered during the first test, but equal if subjects received alcohol first. The increased stress response and its stronger dampening by alcohol in sons of alcoholic fathers suggest a mechanism by which predisposition to develop alcohol use disorders might be expressed, implying that a transient favorable alcohol effect might occur in PHA, but not FHN, subjects.
Comparisons of the same patient data in 2004 and 2006 downloads of the DIN-LINK UK primary care database demonstrated unexpected differences in the rates of coronary heart disease between the datasets. Incidence rates were lower between 1996-2003 in the new (2006) download. Patient record checks demonstrated that coronary heart disease codes had been removed in the new download during the run-up to the new contract. Planners need to be aware of such issues when evaluating trends in CHD or other similar conditions.
BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) therapy has improved the quality of life (QOL) for many asthmatics and reduced mortality rates associated with asthma. However, some patients do not obtain therapeutic benefit despite satisfactory adherence. OBJECTIVES: To determine whether asthmatic patients were using ICS devices appropriately, and to clarify relationships between these results and QOL. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We studied 100 adult asthmatics, divided into two groups: 50 patients consecutively registered as using Diskus (fluticasone; D-group) and 50 consecutively registered as using Turbuhaler (budesonide; T-group). We measured peak inspiratory flows (PIFs) using the In-Check Dial device. Subjects also completed the Asthma Control Test for evaluation of QOL. RESULTS: In the D-group, no patients showed PIF below the optimal range (30-90 L/min), whereas 52% of patients had PIF>/=91 L/min. In the T-group, 6% of patients showed PIF over the optimal range (60-90 L/min), and 44% had PIF</=59 L/min. When patients in the T-group were required to deliberately make a maximal inhalation, 14% still had PIF</=59 L/min. The proportion of patients with poor control was significantly greater in the T-group than in the D-group. According to univariate logistic regression analyses, low PIF tended to be associated with poor asthma control in the T-group. No significant correlation was found between PIF and age in the D-group, but PIF decreased significantly with age in the T-group. CONCLUSIONS: Appropriate measures for patients in whom PIF has been judged as lower than optimal include adequate education for inhalation and/or changing to a different inhalation device. These measures should be kept in mind for elderly asthma patients in particular, where appropriate selection of a corticosteroid inhalation device in the early stages of therapy would also be important.
The expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, class II, CD1a, and CD 83 in dendritic cells (DCs) after infection with human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) was examined. Whereas there was no significant change in the expression of CD1a, CD83, and MHC class II in infected DCs, MHC class I expression was downregulated after infection with HHV-6 variant A but not HHV-6B. The expression of HHV-6 immediate-early or early genes was required for the downregulation of MHC class I. The de novo synthesis of MHC class I was greatly suppressed by infection with HHV-6A in DCs, while its rate of degradation was only slightly elevated. These results suggest that HHV-6A may escape from the host immune system in DCs by causing the downregulation of MHC class I synthesis.
Bleomycin is potentially capable of inducing a diffuse interstitial fibrosis of the lung, the pathogenesis of which has not yet been elucidated. The authors have demonstrated that after 48 hr of acute treatment, morphological and functional modifications could be seen in type II pneumocytes, which are responsible for surfactant production. This might be the earliest stage of pulmonary damage.
Mutations in the transcription factor p53 are among the most common genetic alterations in human cancer, and missense p53 mutations in cancer cells can lead to aggressive phenotypes. So far, only few studies investigated transcriptional reprogramming under mutant p53 expression as a means to identify deregulated targets and pathways. A review of the literature was carried out focusing on mutant p53-dependent transcriptome changes with the aims of (i) verifying whether different p53 mutations can be equivalent for their effects, or whether there is a mutation-specific transcriptional reprogramming of target genes, (ii) understanding what is the main mechanism at the basis of upregulation or downregulation of gene expression under the p53 mutant background, (iii) identifying novel candidate target genes of WT and/or mutant p53 and (iv) defining cellular pathways affected by the mutant p53-dependent gene expression reprogramming. Nearly 600 genes were consistently found upregulated or downregulated upon ectopic expression of mutant p53, regardless of the specific p53 mutation studied. Promoter analysis and the use of ChIP-seq data indicate that, for most genes, the expression changes could be ascribed to a loss both of WT p53 transcriptional activation and repressor functions. Pathway analysis indicated changes in the metabolism/catabolism of amino acids such as aspartate, glutamate, arginine and proline. Novel p53 candidate target genes were also identified, including ARID3B, ARNT2, CLMN, FADS1, FTH1, KPNA2, LPHN2, PARD6B, PDE4C, PIAS2, PRPF40A, PYGL and RHOBTB2, involved in the metabolism, xenobiotic responses and cell differentiation.
The toxicological evaluation of realistic emissions of source aerosols (TERESA) study seeks to delineate health effects of aerosols formed from emissions of particulate matter sources. This series of papers reports the findings of experiments using coal-fired power plants as the source of emissions and this paper summarizes the findings and knowledge acquired from these studies. Emissions were drawn directly from the stacks of three coal-fired power plants in the US, and photochemically aged in a mobile laboratory to simulate downwind power plant plume processing. The power plants used different sources of coal and had different emission controls. Exposure scenarios included primary particles, secondary particles and mixtures of these with common atmospheric constituents (alpha-pinene and ammonia). Extensive exposure characterization was carried out, and toxicological outcomes were evaluated in Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to different emission scenarios. Breathing pattern, pulmonary inflammatory responses, in vivo pulmonary and cardiac chemiluminescence and cardiac response in a model of acute myocardial infarction were assessed. The results showed no response or relatively mild responses to the inhaled aerosols studied; complex scenarios which included oxidized emissions and alpha-pinene to simulate biogenic secondary organic aerosol tended to induce more statistically significant responses than scenarios of oxidized and non-oxidized emissions alone. Relating adverse effects to specific components did not consistently identify a toxic constituent. These findings are consistent with most of the previously published studies using pure compounds to model secondary power plant emissions, but importantly add substantial complexity and thus have considerable merit in defining toxicological responses.
Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) have led to outbreaks worldwide and are considered emerging pathogens. Infections by STEC in humans have been reported after consumption of mainly beef, but also deer. This study investigated the occurrence of STEC in deer in Germany. The virulence genes eae, e-hlyA and saa, the stx subtypes, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) patterns and serovars were studied. In total, 120 samples of 60 animals were screened by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The PCR results showed a high detection rate of stx genes (83%). Mainly faecal samples, but also some lymphatic tissue samples, tested stx-positive. All isolates carried stx2, were eae-negative and carried e-hlyA in 38% and saa in 9% of samples. Serovars (O88:[H8], O174:[H8], O146:H28) associated with human diseases were also identified. In some animals, isolates from lymphatic tissue and faecal samples showed undistinguishable PFGE patterns. The examined deer were shown to be relevant reservoirs of STEC with subtype stx2b predominating.
BACKGROUND: We assessed whether fully closed-loop insulin delivery (the so-called artificial pancreas) is safe and effective compared with standard subcutaneous insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes in the general ward. METHODS: For this single-centre, open-label, parallel-group, randomised controlled trial, we enrolled patients aged 18 years or older with type 2 diabetes who were receiving insulin therapy. Patients were recruited from general wards at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. Participants were randomly assigned (1:1) by a computer-generated minimisation method to receive closed-loop insulin delivery (using a model-predictive control algorithm to direct subcutaneous delivery of rapid-acting insulin analogue without meal-time insulin boluses) or conventional subcutaneous insulin delivery according to local clinical guidelines. The primary outcome was time spent in the target glucose concentration range of 5.6-10.0 mmol/L during the 72 h study period. Analyses were by intention to treat. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01774565. FINDINGS: Between Feb 20, 2015, and March 24, 2016, we enrolled 40 participants, of whom 20 were randomly assigned to the closed-loop intervention group and 20 to the control group. The proportion of time spent in the target glucose range was 59.8% (SD 18.7) in the closed-loop group and 38.1% (16.7) in the control group (difference 21.8% [95% CI 10.4-33.1]; p=0.0004). No episodes of severe hypoglycaemia or hyperglycaemia with ketonaemia occurred in either group. One adverse event unrelated to study devices occurred during the study (gastrointestinal bleed). INTERPRETATION: Closed-loop insulin delivery without meal-time boluses is effective and safe in insulin-treated adults with type 2 diabetes in the general ward. FUNDING: Diabetes UK; European Foundation for the Study of Diabetes; JDRF; National Institute for Health Research Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre; Wellcome Trust.
The mitochondrial genome almost exclusively encodes a handful of transmembrane constituents of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system. Coordinated expression of these genes ensures the correct stoichiometry of the system's components. Translation initiation in mitochondria is assisted by two general initiation factors mIF2 and mIF3, orthologues of which in bacteria are indispensible for protein synthesis and viability. mIF3 was thought to be absent in Saccharomyces cerevisiae until we recently identified mitochondrial protein Aim23 as the missing orthologue. Here we show that, surprisingly, loss of mIF3/Aim23 in S. cerevisiae does not indiscriminately abrogate mitochondrial translation but rather causes an imbalance in protein production: the rate of synthesis of the Atp9 subunit of F1F0 ATP synthase (complex V) is increased, while expression of Cox1, Cox2 and Cox3 subunits of cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV) is repressed. Our results provide one more example of deviation of mitochondrial translation from its bacterial origins.
The association between clinically diagnosed periodontitis, a common chronic oral infection, and metabolic syndrome has been previously reported. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of plasma IgG levels against Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Porphyromonas gingivalis, and Prevotella intermedia, C-reactive protein, and periodontal status with metabolic syndrome. Plasma IgG levels and C-reactive protein were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and salivary levels of A. actinomycetemcomitans and P. gingivalis were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Among 127 individuals aged 35-76 years, 57 participants had metabolic syndrome and severe periodontitis, 25 had metabolic syndrome and an absence of severe periodontitis, 17 healthy individuals had severe periodontitis, and 28 healthy individuals were without severe periodontitis. Patients with metabolic syndrome had reduced humoral immune response to A. actinomycetemcomitans (p = 0.008), regardless of their salivary levels or periodontitis status compared with healthy participants. The IgG antibody response to P. gingivalis, regardless of their salivary levels or participants' health condition, was significantly higher in severe periodontitis patients (p<0.001). Plasma IgG titers for P. intermedia were inconsistent among metabolic syndrome or periodontal participants. Our results indicate that the presence of lower levels of IgG antibodies to A. actinomycetemcomitans (OR = 0.1; 95%CI 0.0-0.7), but not P. gingivalis, a severe periodontitis status (OR = 7.8; 95%CI 1.1-57.0), high C-reactive protein levels (OR = 9.4; 95%CI 1.0-88.2) and body mass index (OR = 3.0; 95%CI 1.7-5.2), are associated with the presence of metabolic syndrome. The role of the decreased IgG antibody response to A. actinomycetemcomitans, increased C-reactive protein levels on the association between periodontal disease and metabolic syndrome in a group of Thai patients is suggested.
Ventricular enlargement in normal aging frequently forces the radiological diagnosis of hydrocephalus, but the reliability of Evans' index as a radiological marker of abnormal ventricular enlargement (values > 0.30) during aging is not assessed. Here we analyze ventricular size during aging and the reliability of Evans' index as a radiological marker of abnormal ventricular enlargement. We calculated Evans' index in the axial Computed Tomography scans of 1221 consecutive individuals (aged 45-101 years) from an emergency department. Stratified analysis of one-year cohorts showed that the mean Evans' index value per class was invariably < 0.30. Roughly one out five Computed Tomography scans was associated with Evans' index values > 0.30 and Evans' index values increased with age. The risk of having an Evans' index value > 0.30 increased by 7.8% per year of age (p < 0.001) and males were at 83.9% greater risk than females (p < 0.001). Overall, this study shows that normal aging enlarges the ventricular system, but never causes abnormal ventricular enlargement. Evans' index values > 0.30 should reflect an underlying neurological condition in every individual.
PURPOSE: Circulating EBV DNA analysis has been shown to be valuable in the detection, prognostication, and monitoring of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) patients. A previous study has shown that, after radiotherapy, plasma EBV DNA levels of NPC patients would decline exponentially with a median half-life of 3.8 days. We postulate that this decline in plasma EBV DNA reflects the decrease in cancer cell population and, therefore, the rate of decline reflects the radiosensitivity of the tumor. However, this postulation would hold true only if EBV DNA is rapidly eliminated from the circulation. In this study, we determined the in vivo elimination rate of plasma EBV DNA in NPC patients. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We monitored the level of plasma EBV DNA in NPC patients during and after surgical resection of NPC. The half-life of plasma EBV DNA was then calculated by plotting the natural logarithm of EBV DNA concentrations against time. RESULTS: The median half-life of plasma EBV DNA after surgical resection of NPC was 139 min. After a median follow-up of 6.7 days, EBV DNA was undetectable in 8 of 11 patients. One of 8 patients with undectable EBV DNA and all of the patients with detectable EBV DNA developed clinical relapse. CONCLUSIONS: The in vivo elimination of EBV DNA is very rapid after surgical resection of NPC. The failure of complete and rapid elimination of EBV DNA from the circulation predicts disease recurrence.
There is a clinically significant correlation between the presence of an antibody against the paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis antigen HuD and the limitation of tumor spread in patients with small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). This suggests that HuD is a possible target molecule for antitumor immunotherapy against SCLC. We have hypothesized that anti-HuD immunity suppresses in vivo growth of HuD-expressing tumor cells. In this study, Colon 26, a murine adenocarcinoma cell line, stably transfected with the HuD gene (Colon 26/HuD cell) was used as a target cell, and the immunity against HuD was evoked by intramuscular injection of a HuD-expressing plasmid, a technique of DNA vaccination previously used in BALB/c mice. Colon 26/HuD cells were injected subcutaneously and tumor size was calculated as a product of width and length. Antitumor activity was investigated by using two different lots of Colon26/HuD cells in two protocols: Protocol 1, in which either Colon 26/HuD or Colon 26 cells were injected in each side, and Protocol 2, in which Colon 26/HuD cells alone were injected. The size of Colon 26/HuD tumors obtained from mice vaccinated with HuD-expressing plasmid was significantly smaller than those from negative control plasmid-vaccinated mice (86.6 +/- 29.9 versus 195.3 +/- 48.1 mm2, P < 0.05 in Protocol 1; 107.7 +/- 12.8 versus 156.6 +/- 22.8 mm2, P < 0.05 in Protocol 2). Moreover, the de novo DNA synthesis of spleen cells obtained from HuD-vaccinated mice was significantly enhanced. In addition, anti-HuD antibody was found in individual sera obtained from HuD-vaccinated mice. DNA vaccination with mouse HuD antigen suppressed HuD-expressing tumor growth in a murine SCLC model.
Little is known about African American families' experiences with mental health services. A purposive sample of 40 dyads of African American youth (aged 13 to 19) and their mothers participated in a cross-sectional qualitative research design using semi-structured interviews that elicited information about their past experiences and satisfaction with mental health services. Though rarely received, group and family therapy were perceived favorably. However, both mothers and youth reported dissatisfaction centered on medication and lack of professionalism, confidentiality, and concern by providers. The failure of mental health services providers to meet basic standards of quality and professionalism may explain the low rate of service use by African Americans.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infects various types of lymphocytes and is associated with not only B cell-origin lymphoma, but also T or natural killer cell lymphoproliferative diseases (T/NK LPD). Recently, we established a novel assay to identify EBV-infected cells using FISH. Using this assay, dual staining with antibodies to both surface antigens and an EBV-encoded small RNA (EBER) probe can be performed. In the present study, we applied this recently developed FISH assay to EBV-associated T/NK LPD to confirm its diagnostic utility. Using FISH, we prospectively analyzed peripheral blood from patients with suspected EBV-associated T/NK LPD. The results were compared with those obtained using immunobead sorting followed by quantitative PCR. In all, 26 patients were included study. Using FISH, 0.15-67.0% of peripheral blood lymphocytes were found to be positive for EBER. Dual staining was used to determine EBER-positive cell phenotypes in 23 of 26 subjects (88.5%). In five of seven patients with hydroa vacciniforme-like lymphoma (an EBV-positive cutaneous T cell lymphoma), EBER-positive cells were identified as CD3(+) CD4(-) CD8(-) TCRgammadelta(+) T cells. Furthermore, in a 25-year-old male patient with systemic EBV-positive T cell LPD, two lymphocyte lineages were positive for EBER: CD4(+) CD8(-) and CD4(-) CD8(+) T cells. Thus, we confirmed that our newly developed assay is useful for quantifying and characterizing EBV-infected lymphocytes in EBV-associated T/NK LPD and that it can be used not only to complement the pathological diagnosis, but also to clarify the pathogenesis and to expand the spectrum of EBV-associated diseases.
Tuberous sclerosis is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the development of benign growths in many tissues and organs. Linkage analysis revealed two disease-determining genes on chromosome 9 and chromosome 16. The TSC2 gene on chromosome 16 encodes a 1784-amino acid tumor suppressor protein, tuberin, that functions as a GTPase-activating protein for Rap1, a member of the superfamily of Ras-related proteins. By immunoblot analyses, we found TSC2 expression to be high in G0 as well as in early small G1 cells. Analyses after different cell synchronization procedures revealed that TSC2 mRNA and protein expression do not fluctuate throughout the cell cycle. Using inducible expression systems we further demonstrated that TSC2 expression is not affected by overexpression of the mitogenic transcription factor E2F-1 or c-Myc. Nevertheless, antisense inhibition of tuberin expression in logarithmically growing cells markedly decreased the percentage of cells in G1. Furthermore, we found that cells exposed to TSC2 antisense oligonucleotides did not undergo G0 arrest after serum withdrawal. Antisense inhibition of TSC2 expression also induced quiescent G0-arrested fibroblasts to reenter the cell cycle. Our data show for the first time that the absence of tuberin can both induce cells to pass through the G1/S transition of the eukaryotic cell cycle and prevent them from entering a quiescent state. These results have clear implications for the tumor suppressor function of TSC2. We further found that reentry into the cell cycle upon loss of TSC2 is dependent on the activity of the G1 cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), Cdk2 or Cdk4. Taken together with our finding that antisense inhibition of TSC2 causes up-regulation of cyclin D1 expression, these results provide the first evidence for a connection between tuberin/Rap1 and the G1 CDK-dependent regulation of the transition from G0/G1 to S phase.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Men have a higher incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) than women, which is believed to partly be because of protective effects of estrogen. We sought to determine whether there were differences in levels of microRNA (miRNA) molecules between male and female HCC samples. METHODS: The expression profiles of a panel of candidate miRNAs were compared between male and female HCC tissues using the TaqMan miRNA assay. A luciferase reporter assay was used to identify mRNA targets recognized by specific miRNAs. The levels of pri- and pre-miRNA for each specific miRNA were assayed by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction to delineate the step deregulated in the biogenesis process. Finally, a colorimetric assay was used to determine the effect of specific miRNAs on hepatoma cell proliferation. RESULTS: The miR-18a miRNA increased specifically in samples from female HCC patients (female/male ratio, 4.58; P = .0023). The gene ESR1, which encodes the estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha), was identified as a target of miR-18a. miR-18a can repress ERalpha translation by binding to its mRNA at the 3' untranslated region. Increased levels of miR-18a in female HCC tissues correlated with reduced ERalpha expression; the level of pre-miR-18a changed in concordance with that of mature miR-18a in these tissues. Overexpression of miR-18a decreased ERalpha levels but stimulated the proliferation of hepatoma cells. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a novel miRNA-mediated regulatory mechanism for controlling ERalpha expression in hepatocytes. miR-18a prevents translation of ERalpha, potentially blocking the protective effects of estrogen and promoting the development of HCC in women.
BACKGROUND: Few studies have evaluated interferon and ribavirin therapy in hepatitis C virus-infected patients with persistently normal alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels. AIM: To determine the efficacy and safety of combination therapy in this population, and to evaluate the impact of treatment on health-related quality of life. METHODS: Forty-six hepatitis C virus-infected patients with persistently normal ALT levels and 92 matched subjects with elevated ALT levels were treated with interferon-alpha2b plus ribavirin for up to 48 weeks. Health-related quality of life was measured prior to therapy and 24 weeks after completion of treatment using the Hepatitis Quality of Life Questionnaire. RESULTS: Overall, 32.6% of patients with normal ALT levels and 28.3% of those with elevated ALT levels had undetectable hepatitis C virus RNA at 24 weeks after completion of treatment (P = 0.60). Three patients in the normal ALT group had mild transient ALT elevations during therapy. Compared with baseline, treatment was associated with significant improvements in nearly all domains of health-related quality of life in both groups of patients. CONCLUSIONS: In hepatitis C virus-infected patients with persistently normal ALT levels, interferon-alpha and ribavirin therapy is efficacious, safe, and associated with significant improvements in health-related quality of life.
To stimulate a productive T cell response, dendritic cells (DC) must undergo maturation characterized by heightened cell surface expression of MHC and costimulatory molecules as well as cytokine production. Conversely, the inhibition of DC maturation is a central mechanism of immune tolerance. The control of the DC maturation process relies on the integration of several cellular stimulatory or inhibitory signals. The soluble factors and their receptors controlling this central aspect of DC biology are incompletely characterized. We show that murine bone marrow-derived DC (BMDC) maturation induced by LPS, as opposed to polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid or cytosine-phosphate-guanine, is robustly inhibited by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a previously identified immunosuppressive cytokine. Using BMDC from wild type and conditional knockout mice, we show that neuropilin-1 (NRP-1), a known receptor of VEGF, is necessary to suppress LPS-dependent BMDC maturation. The absence of NRP-1 had no ostensible effects on the biology of BMDC in the absence of VEGF. However, NRP-1-deficient BMDC remained completely insensitive to the VEGF-dependent inhibition of BMDC maturation in culture. In the presence of VEGF, NRP-1 directly interacted with the LPS receptor TLR4 and suppressed downstream signaling through ERK and NF-kappabeta, resulting in a sharp inhibition of MHC class II and costimulatory molecules (CD40, CD86) expression as well as proinflammatory cytokine production. Consequently, we identify NRP-1 as a target to optimize DC maturation within environments that are rich in VEGF, such as tumors.
RATIONALE: Little is known about adults who frequently visit the emergency department (ED) for acute asthma, or the economic impact of this ED use. OBJECTIVES: To examine the proportion and patient characteristics of adult patients with multiple ED visits for acute asthma and the associated hospital charges. METHODS: We analyzed population-based data from the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project state ED and inpatient databases for two large states (California and Florida) between 2009 and 2010. We focused on adult asthma patients with asthma-related ED visits. Hospital charge data were available only for Florida. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The final cohort comprised 86,224 unique patients with 131,907 asthma-related ED visits. Within 1 year of the first ED visit, 26% (95% confidence interval, 25-26%) of patients had multiple (two or more) ED visits. In a multivariable model adjusting for comorbidities, significant predictors of multiple ED visits were black race, Hispanic ethnicity, and low socioeconomic status (all P < 0.05). In multivariate modeling in finer categories of ED visit number, increasingly stronger associations were found for higher numbers of asthma-related ED visits. Total charges were $346 million in Florida; patients with multiple ED visits accounted for 57% (95% confidence interval, 51-62%) of total charges. CONCLUSIONS: In this population-based cohort, 26% of patients had multiple asthma-related ED visits within 1 year. These patients were more likely to be black, Hispanic, and of lower socioeconomic status; they accounted for 57% of asthma-related hospital charges in Florida. To improve population health and to control asthma-related health care spending, we believe it is imperative to identify and assist adults with frequent asthma-related ED visits.
Respiratory infections are very common in Kuwait, yet little is known about the cause of severe lower respiratory tract infections. This study was designed to investigate the viral cause of lower respiratory tract infections using sensitive molecular methods. PCR was applied to investigate 10 respiratory viruses in respiratory samples from 1,014 patients aged between 3 days to 76 years with acute lower respiratory tract infections. Of the 1,014 patients with lower respiratory tract infections, 288 (28.4%) had a viral infection. One hundred fifty-five (53.8%) presented with bronchiolitis, 100 (43.7%) with pneumonia, and 33 (11.5%) with croup. One hundred six (36.8%) and 99 (34.4%) patients had evidence of respiratory syncytial virus and human rhinoviruses infections, respectively. Adenoviruses were detected in 44 (15.2%) patients, while influenza A virus in 21 (7.3%) patients. The majority of respiratory syncytial virus infections (84%) were among patients aged <1 year. Similarly, of the 99 patients infected by human rhinoviruses, 50 (50.5%) were also among this age group. In contrast, most of influenza A virus infections, 12 of 21 (57.1%), were among patients aged over 16 years. Parainfluenza virus-2 and human coronaviruses were not detected in any of the patients' samples. Over the 3-year period, most of the hospitalized patients were seen during the autumn and winter months from October through March. These data show that respiratory syncytial virus and human rhinoviruses may be the major causes of lower respiratory tract infections in children admitted to hospital in Kuwait.
A 64-year-old man with Waardenburg syndrome presented with anuria and was subsequently discovered by renal ultrasound to have unilateral renal agenesis. The patient is one of three generations with incidental finding of renal agenesis also marked by the presence of Waardenburg syndrome. To our knowledge, there has been no mention elsewhere in the scientific literature of a variant of Waardenburg syndrome with associated renal agenesis.
BACKGROUND: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a therapeutic modality capable of inducing cell death by oxidative stress through activation of a sensitizer by light. Aryl-porphyrin with hydroxyl groups are good photosensitizers and presence of bromine atoms can enhance the photodynamic activity through heavy atom effect. These facts and our previous work made pertinent to compare the photodynamic capacity of tetraaryl brominated porphyrin (TBr4) with the corresponding diaryl (BBr2) derivative. METHODS: Cell cultures were incubated with the sensitizers, ranging from 50nM to 10muM and irradiated until 10J. Cell proliferation was analysed by MTT assay. Flow cytometry studies evaluated cell death pathways, mitochondrial membrane potential and ROS. For in vivo studies Balb/c nu/nu mice were injected with 4x10(6)cells. After PDT, monitoring was carried out for 12 days to establish Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Tumours were excised and histological analysis was performed. RESULTS: Both sensitizers seem to accumulate in the mitochondria. The molecules have no intrinsic cytotoxicity or in non-tumour cells at therapeutic concentrations. Both sensitizers induced a significant decrease of cell proliferation and growth of xenografts of melanoma and colorectal adenocarcinoma. Diaryl BBr2 is more efficient than tetraaryl TBr4, concerning intracellular ROS production, mitochondrial disruption and induction of cell death. The main cell death pathway is necrosis. CONCLUSIONS: TBr2 and BBr4 are promising sensitizers with good photodynamic properties and have the ability to induce cell death in human melanoma and colorectal adenocarcinoma in vitro and in vivo. We consider that BBr2 is a molecule that should be the subject of extensive studies towards clinical use.
INTRODUCTION: An individual's genetic background plays a significant role in his or her chances of developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). This risk is likely to be due to a combination of multiple small effect genetic factors acting together, resulting in considerable difficulty in the identification of these factors. METHODS: Methods for the identification of genetic factors associated with disease are usually based on the analysis of genetic variants in case-control studies. Over the last decade, owing to advances in bioinformatics and laboratory technology, these studies have progressed from focusing on the examination of a single genetic variant in each study to the examination of many millions of variants in a single experiment. We have conducted a series of such experiments using these methods. RESULTS: Our original methods using candidate gene approaches led to the initial identification of a genetic variant in the interleukin-10 gene associated with AAA. However, further studies failed to confirm this association and highlighted the necessity for adequately powered studies to be conducted, as well as the need for confirmatory studies to be performed, prior to the acceptance of a variant as a risk for disease. The subsequent application of genomic techniques to our sample set, in a global collaboration, has led to the identification of three robustly verified risk loci for AAA in the LRP1, LDLR and SORT1 genes. CONCLUSIONS: Genomic studies of AAA have led to the identification of new pathways involved in the pathogenesis of AAA. The exploration of these pathways has the potential to unlock new avenues for therapeutic intervention to prevent the development and progression of AAA.
Studies were conducted to evaluate the combined effect of selected acidulants (acetic, citric, malic, and phosphoric acid) and heat on foodborne pathogens (Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Listeria monocytogenes) in pureed green beans. To establish a consistent reference point for comparison, the molar concentrations of the acids remained constant while the acid-to-puree ratio, titratable acidity, and undissociated acid were either measured or calculated for a target acidified green beans at a pH of 3.8, 4.2, and 4.6. The D-values at 149 degrees F were used as the criteria for acid efficacy. Generally, acetic acid (puree, pH 3.8 and 4.2) represented the most effective acid with comparatively low D-values irrespective of the target microorganism. A 10-s heating at 149 degrees F inactivated approximately 10(6) CFU/ml of E. coli O157:H7 in pureed beans at pH 3.8. The efficacy of acetic acid is likely related to the elevated percent titratable acidity, undissociated acid, and acid-to-puree ratio. The effectiveness (which in this study represents the combined effect of acid and heat) of the remaining acids (citric, malic, and phosphoric) at puree pH values of 3.8 and 4.2 were statistically insignificant (alpha = 0.05). Surprisingly, acetic acid (puree, pH 4.6) appeared to be the least effective as compared to the other acids tested (citric, malic, and phosphoric) especially on E. coli O157:H7 cells, while L. monocytogenes had a similar resistance to all acids at puree pH 4.6. With the exception of citric acid (pH 3.8), acetic acid (pH 4.6), and malic acid (pH 3.8 and 4.6), which were statistically insignificant (P > 0.05), the D-values for L. monocytogenes were statistically different (P < or = 0.05) and higher than the D-values for E. coli under similar experimental conditions. A conservative process recommendation (referred to as the "safe harbor" process) was found sufficient and applicable to pureed green beans for the pH range studied.
OBJECTIVE: To assess associations of Type II DM with hepatocellular carcinoma occurrence in Nepal. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This case control study was carried out using data retrieved from the register maintained in the Department of Biochemistry of Nepalese Army Institute of Health Sciences between 1st January, 2012, and 31st August, 2012. The variables collected were age, gender, HbA1c. All biochemical parameters were analyzed in the Central Laboratory of our hospital by standard validated methods. One way ANOVA was used to examine the statistical significant difference between groups with the LSD post-hoc test for comparison of means of case groups. Odds ratios (OR) were calculated using simple logistic-regression analysis. RESULTS: Etiological factors for HCC were HBV, HCV, alcohol and cryptogenic cirrhosis. The highest age group belonged to the etiological category of HCV with a mean of 71.9 +/- 3.6 (CI 69.3, 74.5) years and the lowest age group to the etiological category of HBV with 61.7 +/- 5.3(CI 57.9, 65.5) years. The main imperative basis of HCC in present study was HCV (39.5%) and second most significant cause of HCC was alcohol (26%). Glycated hemoglobin was found to be more in males with HCC (7.9%) as compared to females (7.3%). The percentage of Type II diabetes mellitus was greater in HCC patients when compared to controls. This difference was statistically significant with an odd ratio of 4.63 (p<0.001). CONCLUSION: Type II DM influences incidence, risk of recurrence, overall survival, and treatment-related complications in HCC patients.
Mammalian cells contain thousands of copies of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). At birth, these are thought to be identical in most humans. Here, we use long read length ultra-deep resequencing-by-synthesis to interrogate regions of the mtDNA genome from related and unrelated individuals at unprecedented resolution. We show that very low-level heteroplasmic variance is present in all tested healthy individuals, and is likely to be due to both inherited and somatic single base substitutions. Using this approach, we demonstrate an increase in mtDNA mutations in the skeletal muscle of patients with a proofreading-deficient mtDNA polymerase gamma due to POLG mutations. In contrast, we show that OPA1 mutations, which indirectly affect mtDNA maintenance, do not increase point mutation load. The demonstration of universal mtDNA heteroplasmy has fundamental implications for our understanding of mtDNA inheritance and evolution. Ostensibly de novo somatic mtDNA mutations, seen in mtDNA maintenance disorders and neurodegenerative disease and aging, will partly be due to the clonal expansion of low-level inherited variants.
Five hundred fifty samples were collected from five chicken farms in Shanghai during March 2005 to October 2006. Twenty-five samples tested positive for Salmonella from a total of 550 samples, of which 500 were obtained from feces of healthy chickens and 50 were obtained from diseased chicks. The 25 presumptive Salmonella isolates were confirmed by the API 20E identification kit. Serotyping of these isolates by agglutination tests with antiserum displayed seven serovars; genotyping of these isolates with multilocus sequence typing demonstrated six sequence type (ST) patterns (i.e., ST-11, ST-19, ST-92, ST-96, ST-290, and ST-367). The multilocus sequence typing data revealed that some of these strains, isolated from different farms, might have the same ST and might come from the same source. The susceptibilities of these strains to 14 antimicrobials were determined; most of the isolates (13 of 25) were resistant to doxycycline and tetracycline, and two isolates were resistant to cefotaxime and ceftazidime, but none was resistant to gentamicin or kanamycin.
A series of 4-amino-5-((4-chlorophenyl)diazenyl)-6-(alkylamino)-1-methylpyrimidin-2-one derivatives 7-16 were prepared by nucleophilic displacement of 6-chloro-pyrimidine 6 by various amines. 4-Amino-5-((aryl-4-yl)diazenyl)-6-aryl-1-methylpyrimidin-2-one analogs 19-27, as well as 4-amino-5-((aryl-[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl)diazenyl)-6-aryl-1-methylpyrimidin-2-one 29-31 and 4-amino-6-aryl-1-methylpyrimidin-2-one 34-34, were synthesized via Suzuki cross-coupling reaction, using Pd(PPh3)4 as a catalyst and arylboronic acids as reagents. All compounds were evaluated for their antiviral activity against the replication of HIV-1 and HIV-2 in MT-4. Compounds 6, 16, 27, and 29 showed a 50% effective concentration of >2.15, >3.03, >2.29, and >1.63 muM, respectively, but no selectivity was observed (selectivity index < 1). Two of the newly synthesized pyrimidines 12 and 29 exhibited moderate kinesin Eg5 inhibition.
With the advent of comparative rRNA sequence analysis and the introduction of molecular genetic methods, such as nucleic acid hybridization and amplification techniques, microbiology is gaining new grounds. Taxonomy based upon phylogenetic analysis leads to a reliable classification. Culture-independent identification procedures allow for the analysis of complex microbial ecosystems and the description of new, as-yet uncultivable infectious disease agents.
The flagellum of a bacterium is a supramolecular structure of extreme complexity comprising simultaneously both a unique system of protein transport and a molecular machine that enables the bacterial cell movement. The cascade of expression of genes encoding flagellar components is closely coordinated with the steps of molecular machine assembly, constituting an amazing regulatory system. Data on structure, assembly, and regulation of flagellar gene expression are summarized in this review. The regulatory mechanisms and correlation of the process of regulation of gene expression and flagellum assembly known from the literature are described.
Using a rat model of peripheral neuropathy induced by a tight ligation of L5-6 spinal nerves, the effects of transcutaneous electrical stimulation on the mechanical responses of wide dynamic range (WDR) dorsal horn neurons were investigated. The responses of the WDR neurons to both the brush and pinch stimuli were found to be enhanced in the neuropathic rats compared to those in the normal rats. These enhanced responses were depressed by low-frequency and high-intensity transcutaneous electrical stimulation (2 Hz, 4-5 mA) applied to the somatic receptive field. The durations of the depressive effects on the brush responses ranged between 30 and 45 min and those on the pinch responses were 60-90 min. These results imply that the transcutaneous electrical stimulation used here produces an antinociceptive effect via a depressive action on the enhanced mechanical responsiveness of the spinal neurons in this rat model of peripheral neuropathy.
The beta gamma subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins play a central role in regulating the function of the G protein alpha subunits and in modulating the activity of several enzymes and ion channels. We have used the signature tryptic cleavage pattern of native beta gamma from bovine brain as a starting point for our analysis of its physical and chemical properties. Digestion of bovine brain beta gamma with trypsin yields only 2 beta-derived fragments, with relative mobilities on SDS-PAGE of 14 kDa (amino terminal) and 27 kDa (carboxyl terminal), despite the presence of 32 potential tryptic cleavage sites in the beta 1 subunit. Trypsin-cleaved beta gamma remains in a complex that has the same apparent sedimentation coefficient as intact beta gamma, and retains its ability to associate functionally with the alpha o subunit. Comparison of the incorporation of [14C]iodoacetamide into reduced denatured beta and unreduced denatured beta showed that there are no disulfide bonds in the molecule to hold the complex together. The brain beta and gamma subunits can be cross-linked by 1,6-bis(maleimido)hexane to form a 46-kDa product on SDS-PAGE, and trypsin cleavage of cross-linked beta gamma shows that gamma is cross-linked to the 14-kDa amino-terminal fragment of the beta subunit. On the basis of its primary sequence, the beta subunit is predicted to form a repetitive structure encompassing the 27-kDa fragment and part of the 14-kDa fragment. Analysis of the thermal denaturation of trypsin-cleaved beta gamma supports this prediction and confirms that both fragments retain stable tertiary structures following tryptic cleavage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
OBJECTIVE: To gain an insight into the daily physical activity levels of patients with chronic pain or fatigue compared with asymptomatic controls. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Picarta, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, reference tracking and a manual search of relevant journals. REVIEW METHODS: A systematic, computerized database search of the medical databases up to September 2006 was performed. In addition, a hand search of relevant journals was carried out. Appropriate studies reported on the daily physical activities of adult patients with chronic pain or fatigue and included an asymptomatic control group. Two reviewers independently carried out methodological quality assessment and data extraction. A qualitative analysis was performed. RESULTS: Twelve studies were included, involving five different syndromes. Results show large heterogeneity in methods used and syndromes investigated, which limited evidence. Eleven different methods were used to assess daily physical activities resulting in 16 different outcome parameters. There seem to be differences between the different syndromes, but results are not conclusive. Eight studies reported a lower physical activity level in patients compared with controls. There seems to be a difference in results between studies using objective versus those using subjective methods. CONCLUSIONS: Results reported in the literature with respect to the activity level of patients with chronic pain or fatigue compared with controls were too heterogeneous to give sufficient evidence and were not conclusive.
The progress in oncological treatment has led to the current increase of childhood cancer survival rate to 80%. That is why orthodontists more and more frequently consult patients who had completed a successful anti-cancer therapy in childhood. Oncological treatments such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy or supportive immunosuppressive therapy cause numerous side effects in growing patients, connected i.a. with growth, the development of teeth or the viscerocranium. This is a special group of patients that needs an optimised plan of orthodontic treatment and often has to accept a compromise result. The purpose of the current work is to discuss the results of orthodontic treatment in patients after an anti-cancer therapy. Time of treatment was 12,5 months. In 6 patients (from 40 undergoing orthodontic therapy) we haven't reached a normocclusion, in 9 patients we should have stopped the therapy because of the recurrence. In 11 patients we found mucosa inflammation and in 1 patient the therapy stopped before the end because of very low oral hygiene level. Bearing in mind the limited number of original works on the above topic in Polish medical literature, the study has been carried out in order to make Polish orthodontists more acquainted with the topic and the standards of dealing with an oncological patient.
Three strains of Geobacillus stearothermophilus (designated A1, P3, and D1) were isolated from a New Zealand milk powder manufacturing plant. Here, we describe their draft genome sequences. This information provided the first genomic insights into the nature of G. stearothermophilus strains present in the milk powder manufacturing environment.
Conventional fluorescence microscopy of fixed HEp-2 cells as well as video microscopy of living cells incubated with transferrin-Texas Red (Tf-TxR) for < 60 min revealed distinct punctuate endosomal structures. Quantitative ultrastructural analysis using horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and cationized gold as tracers showed that spherical multivesicular bodies (MVBs) were the predominant endocytic compartments in HEp-2 cells and that MVBs within 60 to 90 min matured into lysosomes still containing internal vesicles. The number of labeled MVBs increased continuously from 2.5 min to 30 min of tracer incubation. However, when the cells were pulsed for 5 min followed by 10 or 25 min chases, the number of labeled MVBs corresponded to that obtained after 5 min of continuous incubation. The diameter of labeled MVBs was largely constant with time, but the number of internal MVB vesicles increased. Thus, early or newly formed MVBs contained few internal vesicles, whereas late MVBs, that is to say, MVBs that have existed for some period of time, contained numerous internal vesicles, and finally a mixture of membranous material or myelin figures and vesicles. It is thus in principle possible to distinguish between early and late MVBs in HEp-2 cells on the basis of morphology. However, the difference in number of internal vesicles applies only to the entire MVB population; after only 2.5 to 5 min of incubation, MVBs with numerous internal vesicles could also be reached by internalized tracer. Concomitant with the gradual changes in morphology, the MVBs also showed a characteristic change in content of marker proteins as detected by immunogold labeling on ultracryosections. Hence, early MVBs with relatively few internal vesicles and typically reached by internalized tracers within 5 min contained transferrin receptors (TfRs). By contrast, MVBs with many internal vesicles and labeled after 60 min of incubation contained mannose-phosphate receptors (MPRs), and the MVBs with distinct membranous material or myelin figures in addition to the internal vesicles were enriched in the lysosome membrane protein lamp-1. Thus, there seems to be a gradual maturation of MVBs in HEp-2 cells.
OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: The objectives of this study were to delineate methods for the development of primary squamous cell carcinoma (SCCHN) xenografts and to define human leukocyte antigen (HLA), melanoma-associated antigen (MAGE)-A3, and human papilloma virus (HPV) 16 antigenic expression in resultant cellular products. STUDY DESIGN: Prospective experimental model. METHODS: Freshly isolated SCCHN xenografts were established in nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice using a variety of methods. Resultant tumors were analyzed for expression patterns of HLA-A, MAGE-A3, and HPV 16. Appropriate controls were included to ensure the presence of human RNA. RESULTS: Three xenografts were successfully established and passaged in vivo. Characterization of the resultant products revealed that one was positive for HLA-A2 at both the DNA and protein levels. One of the tumor lines expressed MAGE-A3, whereas none expressed HPV 16. CONCLUSIONS: Freshly isolated SCCHN can be used to generate primary xenografts. Characterization of select patterns of protein expression in established xenografts is a precursor to the development of a mouse model for SCCHN using tumor bearing animals reconstituted with autologous patient leukocytes.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels underlie the pacemaker currents (I(f)) in cardiac cells. The objectives of this study were to investigate the electropharmacological activity of amiodarone on human HCN channels heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. hHCN channels were expressed in oocytes and studied using the standard two-electrode voltage-clamp techniques. The results show that amiodarone blocks hHCN channels heterologously expressed in the Xenopus oocytes in a concentration- and use-dependent manner, but doesn't modify the voltage dependence of activation and reversal potentials. And the removal of blockage of HCN channels by amiodarone was favored by inward current flow, not by hyperpolarizing potential. Characteristics of blockage on hHCN channels were consistent with those of amiodarone as "trapped" drugs on human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG) channels. These results will be useful for elucidating the potentially antiarrhythmic mechanism of amiodarone.
The IL-1 type I receptor (IL-1RI) is part of a signaling complex together with the IL-1R accessory protein, whereas available information is consistent with a "decoy" model of function for the IL-1 type II receptor (IL-1RII). The present study was designed to investigate the effect of bacterial LPS on IL-1R in human monocytes. LPS causes rapid release of the IL-1RII, an effect blocked by a metalloprotease inhibitor. Subsequently, LPS-treated monocytes showed a drastic reduction of IL-1RII mRNA. In contrast, LPS induced IL-1RI and, to a lesser extent, IL-1AcP expression. LPS-induced augmented expression of the canonical 5-kb IL-1RI mRNA was accompanied by the appearance of 2.4-kb IL-1RI transcripts. The use of probes representative of different regions of the IL-1RI mRNA, as well as cDNA cloning, revealed that the 2.4-kb inducible band includes incompletely spliced, polyadenylated transcripts potentially encoding truncated versions of the receptor. The observation that the prototypic proinflammatory molecule LPS has divergent effects on IL-1Rs, with inhibition of IL-1RII and stimulation of IL-1RI and IL-1R accessory protein, is consistent with the view that these molecules subserve opposite functions in the pathophysiology of the IL-1 system. The rapid shedding of IL-1RII by monocytes early in recruitment may serve to buffer the systemic action of IL-1 leaking from sites of inflammation. This early event, followed by prolonged inhibition of IL-1RII expression and up-regulation of IL-1RI, may render monocytes more responsive to IL-1 at sites of inflammation.
Adverse effects induced by cytotoxic chemotherapy (CT) have been mostly evaluated in clinical trials. The aim of this study was to assess in a nonselected patients group the incidence of CT-related toxicities and to identify risk factors in daily practice. Patients treated with CT (except cisplatin-based or carboplatin-based CT), for a solid tumour, were included in a prospective multicentre observational study. Clinical parameters, renal function and albumin level were assessed at baseline. Multivariate logistic regression was used to identify risk factors of CT-related toxicities. A total of 502 patients were recruited in different types of oncology departments. During CT, 62% of patients experienced grade 2-4 toxicities. Haematological toxicities affected 34% of patients and 20% of patients developed an infection requiring antibiotics. For 55% of patients, toxicities induced dose reduction (59% of cases), CT delay (25%) or discontinuation (16%) according to the management habits in the investigating centre. Performance status>/=1, breast cancer, lymphopenia, hypoalbuminaemia and clearance creatinine<60 ml/min were risk factors for haematological toxicity. Performance status>/=1, hypoalbuminaemia, proteinuria and clearance creatinine<90 ml/min were risk factors for change of CT schedule. A majority of patients receiving CT experienced significant toxicity leading to change of standard CT protocol. Albumin, creatinine clearance and lymphocyte should be routinely monitored at baseline to manage CT and to prevent their toxicities.
The degree distribution has been viewed as an important characteristic of network data. Many biological networks have been labelled scale-free as their degree distribution can be approximately described by a power-law probability distribution. This chapter presents a formal statistical model selection procedure that can determine which functional form, from a collection of specified models, best describes the degree distribution of network data. The degree distribution found for empirical data is viewed as belonging to a class of probability models and the model which best describes the data is determined in a maximum likelihood framework. In conclusion, it is important to note that these statistical tests do not confirm the true underlying distribution of the observed data, but instead show which models from a chosen set best describe the data. In reality, these approaches should be viewed as providing evidence for which probability models do not adequately (or optimally) describe the data, and give an indication of the underlying sampling and true interaction properties of the system considered.
Neurons containing somatostatin (SOM) are enriched in the dentate gyrus. We sought to establish the ultrastructural localization of this peptide in the dentate gyrus of the rat brain with a double-bridged peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) method localizing antisera directed against somatostatin (SOM)-28 and SOM-28. Initial light microscopic observations confirmed that the majority of perikarya and thick varicose processes with intense SOM-like immunoreactivity (SOM-LI) were observed in the hilus. Fine varicose processes with SOM-LI were found throughout all layers of the dentate gyrus but were most intense in the outer third of the molecular layer (ML), where an occasional perikaryon with SOM-LI was seen. By electron microscopy, SOM-LI was found in neuronal perikarya, dendrites, axons, and axon terminals. Two types of SOM-containing perikarya were observed. The first type was small (6-10 microns), round or avoid, and had a labeled cytoplasma with abundant Golgi complexes and a dense accumulation of PAP-reaction product. The second type of perikarya was larger (11-16 microns) and had a more abundant cytoplasm than the first type, but the Golgi complexes did not appear labeled. Most (96% of 374) of the synapses on the SOM-labeled perikarya and dendrites were from terminals without SOM-LI which formed nearly equal proportions of asymmetric and symmetric junctions. The remainder of the presynaptic terminals contained SOM-LI and made primarily symmetric synapses. Synaptic junctions from both unlabeled and labeled terminals were primarily on the shafts of the small (0.5-1.5 microns) SOM-immunoreactive dendrites. The terminals with SOM-LI (0.25-1.3 microns) contained many small, clear vesicles and from zero to four large dense-core vesicles. Terminals with SOM-LI were associated 1) with one unlabeled perikaryon or dendrite (49% of 215 in the hilus; 76% of 326 in the ML); 2) with two unlabeled perikarya or dendrites simultaneously (5% hilus; 4% ML); and 3) with one SOM-containing perikaryon or dendrite (6% hilus; 3% ML). In all three types of associations, synaptic contacts on perikarya were few while the majority were with small (distal) dendrites. Moreover, most of the terminals with SOM-LI formed symmetric junctions or lacked membrane specializations but were without any apparent glial intervention in the plane of section analyzed. The remaining SOM-labeled terminals (40% hilus; 17% ML) were without any apparent synaptic relations. However, a few of these terminals were in direct apposition to other terminals, some of which were also SOM-immunoreactive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
S100 beta, a calcium-binding protein synthesized by CNS astrocytes, has trophic effects in vitro (neurite extension and glial proliferation). In Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome, severely afflicted brain regions exhibit up to 20-fold higher levels of S100 beta protein, and astrocytes surrounding neuritic plaques exhibit highly elevated levels of S100 beta immunostaining. A major constituent of plaques, beta-amyloid, has been reported to have neurotoxic and neurotrophic effects in vitro. In our study we examined the responses of CNS glia to beta-amyloid. C6 glioma cells and primary rat astrocyte cultures were treated with beta A(1-40) peptide at doses up to 1 microM. Weak mitogenic activity, measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation, was observed. Northern blot analysis revealed increases of S100 beta mRNA within 24 h in a dose-dependent manner. Nuclear run-off transcription assays showed that beta A(1-40) specifically induced new synthesis of S100 beta mRNA in cells maintained in serum, but under serum-free conditions, there was a general elevation of several mRNA species. Corresponding increases of S100 beta protein synthesis were observed by immunoprecipitation of 35S-labeled cellular proteins. To evaluate whether this effect of beta-amyloid was mediated via neurokinin receptors or by calcium fluxes, various agonists and antagonists were tested and found to be ineffective at stimulating S100 beta synthesis. In sum, these in vitro data suggest that in neuropathological conditions, beta-amyloid itself is an agent which may provoke chronic gliosis and the production of trophic substances by astrocytes.
Hurthle cell tumors are rare thyroid neoplasms for which disease biology is poorly understood and diagnosis of carcinoma can be challenging. The aim of the study was to characterize molecular expression profiles of Hurthle cell tumors and to determine the clinical significance of identified phenotypes. Paraffin-embedded tissue cores of normal thyroid (n = 18), and histopathologically well-defined Hurthle cell adenomas (n = 27), Hurthle cell tumors of unknown malignant behavior (n = 7), and minimally (n = 14) and widely (n = 21) invasive Hurthle cell carcinomas were arrayed in triplicate on tissue microarrays. Expression profiles of p53, mdm-2, p21, Bcl-2, cyclin D1, and Ki-67 were detected by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinicopathological data and patient outcome using standard statistical methodology. Median follow-up time was 8 years. High Ki-67 proliferative index was evident only in the clinically aggressive widely invasive Hurthle cell carcinomas and was associated with significantly reduced relapse-free (P = 0.001) and disease-specific (P < 0.001) survival. The molecular phenotype of Hurthle cell tumors, independent of histopathological subtype diagnosis, was characterized by p53(-), mdm-2(+), p21(+/-), cyclin D1(-), and Bcl-2(+/-). Normal thyroid tissue demonstrated a p53(-), mdm-2(-), p21(-), cyclin D1(-), and Bcl-2(+) phenotype. The Bcl-2(+) phenotype was associated with improved relapse-free survival (P = 0.04) and disease-specific survival (P = 0.01) in widely invasive carcinomas and the Ki-67(+)/Bcl-2(-) phenotype was associated with the diagnosis of widely invasive Hurthle cell carcinoma (P < 0.001). This study demonstrates that tissue microarray-based profiling allows identification of molecular markers that are associated with patient prognosis. High Ki-67 proliferative index was associated with adverse outcome in Hurthle cell neoplasms. Together with down-regulation of Bcl-2, high Ki-67 proliferative index may be useful for diagnosing widely invasive Hurthle cell carcinomas. Molecular alterations in the p53 pathway play a role in Hurthle cell tumorigenesis, but other unidentified molecular changes seem to be required to induce the malignant phenotype.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The ability to measure the benefits of mentoring among bedside nurses is essential for leaders in health care organizations to evaluate the effectiveness of mentoring initiatives for nurses. This article describes the development and testing of the Jakubik mentoring benefits questionnaire (Jakubik MBQ). The instrument is a 36-item tool that uses a 5-point Likert scale to measure the individual and organizational benefits of mentoring from the nurse protege's perspective. METHODS: The original Jakubik MBQ was a 57-item tool developed and validated (validity = .96) with a panel of 6 expert judges prior to reliability testing in a pilot study with 11 subjects (Cronbach's alpha = .98). Subsequently, the 57-item instrument was used in 3 separate research studies (Jakubik, 2007a, 2007b; Jakubik, Eliades, Gavriloff, & Weese, 2011) with strong internal consistency reliability evidenced by Cronbach's alpha coefficients of .98, .98, and .97, respectively. Exploratory factor analysis was conducted on the 57-item instrument with the 453 subjects from the aforementioned 3 studies. RESULTS: Results of the factor analysis confirmed a total of 6 factors (subscales). Based on the factor analysis, the 4 original theoretical subscales were confirmed, 2 additional subscales were added, the original subscales were renamed, and the instrument was shortened to 36 items with each subscale containing 6 items and an overall Cronbach's alpha of .97. CONCLUSIONS: Based on these overall findings, the Jakubik MBQ provides a valid and reliable instrument for use in measuring the mentoring benefits among pediatric staff nurse proteges engaged in mentoring relationships.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the correlation between G421C polymorphism in the regulatory region of CYP4F2 gene and essential hypertension and its molecular mechanism. METHODS: Totally 196 hypertensive patients (hypertension group) and 219 normotensive subjects (control group) were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. The promoter activity with different alleles was evaluated by reporter assay. A Myb responsive element was identified using gel retardation assay. RESULTS: Significant differences were found in distribution of genotype and allele frequency of G421C between hypertension group and control group (P < 0.05), and homozygous GG genotype was independently associated with hypertension after adjustment for age, gender, body mass index, and other risk factors (odds ratios 1.87, 95% CI 1.11-3.13, P < 0.05). 421G reporter construct showed decreased promoter activity compared with 421C reporter construct. 421G existed in Myb responsive element, whereas 421C damaged this motif. CONCLUSION: G421C polymorphism in the regulatory region of CYP4F2 gene is correlated with essential hypertension. 421G allele inhibits transcription by binding affinity of Myb responsive element.
In many protein storage diseases, detergent-insoluble proteins accumulate in the early secretory compartment (ESC). Protein condensation reflects imbalances between entry into (synthesis/translocation) and exit from (secretion/degradation) ESC, and can be also a consequence of altered quality control (QC) mechanisms. Here we exploit the inducible formation of Russell bodies (RB), dilated ESC cisternae containing mutant Ig-micro chains, as a model to mechanistically dissect protein condensation. Depending on the presence or absence of Ig-L chains, mutant Ig-micro chains lacking their first constant domain (Ch1) accumulate in rough or smooth RB (rRB and sRB), dilations of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), respectively, reflecting the proximal and distal QC stations in the stepwise biogenesis of polymeric IgM. Either weakening ERp44-dependent distal QC or facilitating ER-associated degradation (ERAD) inhibits RB formation. Overexpression of PDI or ERp44 inhibits muDeltaCh1 secretion. However, PDI inhibits while ERp44 promotes muDeltaCh1 condensation. Both Ero1alpha silencing and overexpression prevent RB formation, demonstrating a strict redox dependency of the phenomenon. Altogether, our findings identify key controllers of protein condensation along the ESC as potential targets to handle certain storage disorders.
We have determined the 3.2 A X-ray crystal structure of the extracellular domain of the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (ErbB2 or HER2) in a complex with the antigen binding fragment of pertuzumab, an anti-ErbB2 monoclonal antibody also known as 2C4 or Omnitarg. Pertuzumab binds to ErbB2 near the center of domain II, sterically blocking a binding pocket necessary for receptor dimerization and signaling. The ErbB2-pertuzumab structure, combined with earlier mutagenesis data, defines the pertuzumab residues essential for ErbB2 interaction. To analyze the ErbB2 side of the interface, we have mutated a number of residues contacting pertuzumab and examined the effects of these mutations on pertuzumab binding and ErbB2-ErbB3 heterodimerization. We have also shown that conserved residues previously shown to be necessary for EGF receptor homodimerization may be dispensible for ErbB2-ErbB3 heterodimerization.
The virucidal activity of several disinfectants containing newer generation quaternary ammonium compounds (QACs) as their active ingredients was evaluated. Disinfectants were used at the manufacturers' recommended dilutions with isolates of feline herpesvirus, feline calicivirus, and canine parvovirus, and a contact time of 10 minutes at room temperature. Detoxification of virus/disinfectant solutions was done by dialysis prior to virus assay in cell cultures. Two of four disinfectants completely inactivated feline herpesvirus, and two significantly reduced the titer of this virus. None of the disinfectants that were tested completely inactivated feline calicivirus. Canine parvovirus was not inactivated significantly by any of the QAC disinfectants. Sodium hypochlorite completely inactivated all viruses.
In an open multicentre study we have demonstrated that itraconazole pulse therapy, 5 mg/kg per day, is effective and safe in the management of tinea capitis in 10 children (seven boys, three girls, mean age: 6.6 years, age range 4-11 years). The causative organisms were Trichophyton tonsurans (six cases), T. violaceum (two cases), T. soudanense (one case) and Microsporum gypseum (one case). Each pulse of drug therapy lasted 1 week with 2 weeks off between consecutive pulses. One, two and three pulses produced complete, clinical and mycological, cure in one, six and three patients, respectively. The children tolerated the treatment well and there were no clinical or laboratory adverse effects. This 1-week pulse therapy regimen resulted in a high degree of compliance. The preliminary results of this study are promising and need to be evaluated in a larger sample of patients.
Site-directed mutagenesis studies have suggested that additional peptide information in the central cell-binding domain of fibronectin besides the minimal Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) sequence is required for its full adhesive activity. The nature of this second, synergistic site was analyzed further by protein chemical and immunological approaches using biological assays for adhesion, migration, and matrix assembly. Fragments derived from the cell-binding domain were coupled covalently to plates, and their specific molar activities in mediating BHK cell spreading were compared with that of intact fibronectin. A 37-kD fragment purified from chymotryptic digests of human plasma fibronectin had essentially the same specific molar activity as intact fibronectin. In contrast, other fragments such as an 11.5-kD fragment lacking NH2-terminal sequences of the 37-kD fragment had only poor spreading activity on a molar basis. Furthermore, in competitive inhibition assays of fibronectin-mediated cell spreading, the 37-kD fragment was approximately 325-fold more active than the GRGDS synthetic peptide on a molar basis. mAbs were produced using the 37-kD protein as an immunogen and their epitopes were characterized. Two separate mAbs, one binding close to the RGD site and the other to a site approximately 15 kD distant from the RGD site, individually inhibited BHK cell spreading on fibronectin by greater than 90%. In contrast, an antibody that bound between these two sites had minimal inhibitory activity. The antibodies found to be inhibitory in cell spreading assays for BHK cells also inhibited both fibronectin-mediated cell spreading and migration of human HT-1080 cells, functions which were also dependent on function of the alpha 5 beta 1 integrin (fibronectin receptor). Assembly of endogenously synthesized fibronectin into an extracellular matrix was not significantly inhibited by most of the anti-37-kD mAbs, but was strongly inhibited only by the antibodies binding close to the RGD site or the putative synergy site. These results indicate that a second site distant from the RGD site on fibronectin is crucial for its full biological activity in diverse functions dependent on the alpha 5 beta 1 fibronectin receptor. This site is mapped by mAbs closer to the RGD site than previously expected.
GWAS have identified a breast cancer susceptibility locus on 2q35. Here we report the fine mapping of this locus using data from 101,943 subjects from 50 case-control studies. We genotype 276 SNPs using the 'iCOGS' genotyping array and impute genotypes for a further 1,284 using 1000 Genomes Project data. All but two, strongly correlated SNPs (rs4442975 G/T and rs6721996 G/A) are excluded as candidate causal variants at odds against >100:1. The best functional candidate, rs4442975, is associated with oestrogen receptor positive (ER+) disease with an odds ratio (OR) in Europeans of 0.85 (95% confidence interval=0.84-0.87; P=1.7 x 10(-43)) per t-allele. This SNP flanks a transcriptional enhancer that physically interacts with the promoter of IGFBP5 (encoding insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5) and displays allele-specific gene expression, FOXA1 binding and chromatin looping. Evidence suggests that the g-allele confers increased breast cancer susceptibility through relative downregulation of IGFBP5, a gene with known roles in breast cell biology.
REC8 is a key component of the meiotic cohesin complex. During meiosis, cohesin is required for the establishment and maintenance of sister-chromatid cohesion, for the formation of the synaptonemal complex, and for recombination between homologous chromosomes. We show that REC8 has an essential role in mammalian meiosis, in that Rec8 null mice of both sexes have germ cell failure and are sterile. In the absence of REC8, early chromosome pairing events appear normal, but synapsis occurs in a novel fashion: between sister chromatids. This implies that a major role for REC8 in mammalian meiosis is to limit synapsis to between homologous chromosomes. In all other eukaryotic species studied to date, REC8 phenotypes have been restricted to meiosis. Unexpectedly, Rec8 null mice are born in sub-Mendelian frequencies and fail to thrive. These findings illuminate hitherto unknown REC8 functions in chromosome dynamics during mammalian meiosis and possibly in somatic development.
Bipolar spectrum disorders are recurrent illnesses characterized by episodes of depression, hypomania, mania or the appearance of mixed states. Great variability is evident in the frequency of episode recurrence and duration. In addition to regular circannual episodes, a spectrum of cycle frequencies has been observed, from the classical rapid cycling (RC) pattern of four or more episodes per year, to those with distinct shifts of mood and activity occurring within a 24-48 h period, described as ultra-ultra rapid cycling (UURC) or ultradian cycling. RC has a female preponderance, and occurs with greater frequency premenstrually, at the puerperium and at menopause. Tricyclic antidepressants and MAOIs, both of which increase functional monoamines norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin, are known to precipitate mania or rapid-cycling in an estimated 20-30% of affectively ill patients. We have recently reported a strong association between velo-cardio-facial syndrome (VCFS) patients diagnosed with rapid-cycling bipolar disorder, and an allele encoding the low enzyme activity catechol-O-methyltransferase variant (COMT L). Between 85-90% of VCFS patients are hemizygous for COMT. Homozygosity for the low activity allele (COMT LL) is associated with a 3-4 fold reduction of COMT enzyme activity compared with homozygotes for the high activity variant (COMT HH). There is nearly an equal distribution of L and H alleles in Caucasians. Individuals with COMT LL would be expected to have higher levels of transynaptic catecholamines due to a reduced COMT degradation of norepinephrine and dopamine. We therefore hypothesized that the frequency of COMT L would be greater in RC BPD ascertained from the general population. Significantly, we found that the frequency of COMT L was higher in the UURC variant of BPD than among all other groups studied (P = 0.002). These findings indicate that COMT L could represent a modifying gene that predisposes to ultra-ultra or ultradian cycling in patients with bipolar disorder.
The mammalian inner ear contains the cochlea and vestibular organs, which are responsible for hearing and balance, respectively. The epithelia of these sensory organs contain hair cells that function as mechanoreceptors to transduce sound and head motion. The molecular mechanisms underlying hair cell development and differentiation are poorly understood. Math1, a mouse homolog of the Drosophila proneural gene atonal, is expressed in inner ear sensory epithelia. Embryonic Math1-null mice failed to generate cochlear and vestibular hair cells. This gene is thus required for the genesis of hair cells.
The accuracy of locating the accessory pathways (APs) before and during operation in the operated 32 patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW) was reported. There were 27 cases with the single AP, in which 17 had left-lateral free-wall pathways, 6 had left-posterior free-wall pathways, 2 had posterior septal pathways, 1 had right free-wall pathway and 1 had anterior septal pathway, and 5 cases with double APs. Taking the double APs as a single apparent AP, the accuracy was 87% (20/23) by electrocardiograms (exclusive of 9 concealed WPW), 94% (30/32) by electrophysiologic studies (EPS) and 97% (31/32) by epicardial mappings (ECM). It was difficult to discover and locate the double APs. For the 10 APs of 5 cases with double APs, the accuracy was 60% (6/10) by EPS and 70% (7/10) by ECM.
BACKGROUND: Aedes aegypti is the principal vector of dengue and yellow fever viruses. The availability of the sequenced and annotated genome enables genome-wide analyses of gene expression in this mosquito. The large amount of data resulting from these analyses requires efficient cataloguing before it becomes useful as the basis for new insights into gene expression patterns and studies of the underlying molecular mechanisms for generating these patterns. FINDINGS: We provide a publicly-accessible database and data-mining tool, aeGEPUCI, that integrates 1) microarray analyses of sex- and stage-specific gene expression in Ae. aegypti, 2) functional gene annotation, 3) genomic sequence data, and 4) computational sequence analysis tools. The database can be used to identify genes expressed in particular stages and patterns of interest, and to analyze putative cis-regulatory elements (CREs) that may play a role in coordinating these patterns. The database is accessible from the address http://www.aegep.bio.uci.edu. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of gene expression, function and sequence data coupled with integrated sequence analysis tools allows for identification of expression patterns and streamlines the development of CRE predictions and experiments to assess how patterns of expression are coordinated at the molecular level.
Previous studies have shown that high NaCl can be genotoxic, either alone or combined with irradiation. However, little is known about the relationship between environmental NaCl at elevated conditions and radiation-induced bystander effects (RIBE). RIBE, which has been considered as non-targeted bystander responses, has been demonstrated to occur widely in various cell lines. In the present study, RIBE under the elevated NaCl culture condition was assessed in AG 1522 cells by both the induction of gamma-H2AX, a reliable marker of DNA double-strand break (DSB) for the early process (<1h post irradiation), and the generation of micronuclei (MN), a sensitive marker for relative long process of RIBE. Our results showed that in the absence of irradiation, NaCl at elevated concentration such as 8.0, 9.0 and 10.0g/L did not significantly increase the frequency of gamma-H2AX foci-positive cells and the number of foci per positive cell comparing with that NaCl at a normal concentration (6.8g/L). However, with 0.2cGy alpha-particle irradiation, the induced fraction of gamma-H2AX foci-positive cells and the number of induced gamma-H2AX foci per positive cell were significantly increased in both irradiated and adjacent non-irradiated regions. Similarly, the induction of MN by 0.2cGy alpha-particle irradiation also increased with the elevated NaCl concentrations. With N(G)-methyl-l-arginine, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, the induced fraction of foci-positive cells was effectively inhibited both in 0.2cGy alpha-particle irradiated and adjacent non-irradiated regions under either normal or elevated NaCl conditions. These results suggested that the cultures with elevated NaCl medium magnified the damage effects induced by the low dose alpha-particle irradiation and nitric oxide generated by irradiation was also very important in this process.
The authors use molecular dynamics simulations to investigate viral peptide interactions as the cause of pH-dependent fusion in liposomal drug delivery. Viral peptides (LEFN) are composed of a linker peptide (LELELELE) connected to a synthetic viral peptide (DRGWGNGCGLFGKGSI). Rather than being anchored in a lipid bilayer, the viral peptides are anchored to a neutral surface by the amino termini of the linker peptide (anchor atoms are mobile in the xy-plane). Atomistic-level peptide pair arrangement on a surface depends on pH; however, the overall propensity to cluster is independent of pH, indicating that pH-sensitive liposome fusion is not due to peptide clustering. To further investigate a molecular cause of pH-sensitive fusion, the authors treat the linker peptides as ectodomains, with the assumption that the viral peptides are already inserted into a target membrane. In these simulations, the linker peptides are elongated to encourage them to bundle. At both high and low pH, the peptides readily bundle. At high pH, however, bundling was constrained by long-range order induced by sodium ions bridging negatively charged glutamic acid residues on neighboring peptides. The authors hypothesize that this constraint hinders the ability of the linker peptides to support viral peptide insertion, resulting in decreased levels of fusion observed experimentally.
The active and passive deformation of a blood vessel is related to the stress in it. Any analysis of stress and strain must begin with the zero-stress state. Recent reports on large blood vessels such as the aorta, pulmonary arteries, and vena cava have shown that, at zero-stress state, blood vessels are not tubes, but opens sectors. This report presents data on the zero-stress state of small blood vessels with lumen diameters down to approximately 50 microns. Zero-stress state of a vessel was obtained by cutting the vessel into rings and then the rings into sectors; each sector is characterized by an opening angle, alpha. In rat ileal and plantar arterioles, the opening angles are in the order of 100-250 degrees; those in the venules are in the order of 50-100 degrees. The effect of norepinephrine on the opening angle alpha is minor; it decreases alpha of the superior mesenteric artery, and increases alpha of the ileocecocolic and ileal arteries. EDTA has little effect on alpha of arteries greater than 100 microns in diameter, but decreases alpha of arteries less than 100 microns. The physiological meaning of the opening angle is demonstrated in terms of the residual strains in a vessel at the no-load state and homeostatic strains at normal blood pressure. The strains in real vessels are compared with those in hypothetical vessels having an opening angle of zero. It is shown that ignoring the opening angle will cause a large error in strain evaluation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immunoreactivity to nitric oxide synthase (NOS-IR) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT-IR) was detected in the adult rat spinal cord using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. Intensely stained NOS-positive neurons with cell processes were observed in the intermediolateral cell column of the thoracic and sacral segments and around the central canal of all segments. These areas also contained ChAT-IR neurons. A number of small- to medium-sized NOS-IR cells were noted in the superficial and deeper laminae throughout the entire cord. NOS-IR was not detected in the ventral horn motoneurons, which were, however, ChAT-IR. The results indicate that NOS-IR is present in autonomic preganglionic neurons and in selected neurons in the dorsal horn and lamina X, but appears to be absent in motoneurons.
We previously reported that chickens infected with the avian adenovirus SMAM-1 developed a unique syndrome characterized by excessive intra-abdominal fat deposition accompanied by paradoxically low serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. There have been no previous reports of avian adenoviruses infecting humans. We screened the serum of 52 humans with obesity in Bombay, India, for antibodies against SMAM-1 virus using the agar gel precipitation test (AGPT) method. Bodyweights and serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels were compared in SMAM-1-positive (P-AGPT) and SMAM-1-negative (N-AGPT) groups. Ten subjects were positive for antibodies to SMAM-1, and 42 subjects did not have antibodies. The P-AGPT group had a significantly higher bodyweight (p < 0.02) and body mass index (p < 0.001) (95.1 +/- 2.1 kg and 35.3 +/- 1.5 kg/m2, respectively) compared with the N-AGPT group (80.1 +/- 0.6 kg and 30.7 +/- 0.6 kg/m2, respectively). Also, the P-AGPT group had significantly lower serum cholesterol (p < 0.02) and triglyceride (p < 0.001) values (4.65 mmol/L and 1.45 mmol/L, respectively) compared with the N-AGPT group (5.51 mmol/L and 2.44 mmol/L, respectively). Two subjects positive for SMAM-1 antibodies had antibodies against each others' serum, suggesting the presence of antigens in one or both. When these two serum samples were inoculated into chicken embryos, macroscopic lesions compatible with SMAM-1 infection developed. The inoculation of serum from N-AGPT subjects did not produce such lesions. The presence of increased obesity, antibodies to SMAM-1, reduced levels of blood lipids, and viremia that produces a typical infection in chicken embryos suggests that SMAM-1, or a serologically similar human virus, may be involved in the cause of obesity in some humans.
The time course of changes in the level of uncoupling protein mRNA when cold-acclimated mice were returned to a thermoneutral environment (33 degrees C) was examined using a cDNA probe. Upon deacclimation, there was a marked loss of uncoupling protein mRNA within 24 h, which precedes the loss of uncoupling protein from mitochondria. This loss of uncoupling protein mRNA was selective, since there was no change in the relative proportion of cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV mRNA or poly(A)+ RNA in total RNA. The results suggest that the decrease in the mitochondrial content of uncoupling protein during deacclimation is likely the result of turnover of existing protein, with very little replacement due to a lower level of its mRNA.
Magnesium (Mg) is a promising biodegradable implant material because of its appropriate mechanical properties and safe degradation products. However, in vivo corrosion speed and hydrogen gas production need to be controlled for uses in biomedical applications. Here we report the development of a conducting polymer 3,4-ethylenedioxythiphene (PEDOT) and graphene oxide (GO) composite coating as a corrosion control layer. PEDOT/GO was electropolymerized on Mg samples in ethanol media. The coated Mg samples were subjected to various corrosion tests. The PEDOT/GO coating significantly reduced the rate of corrosion as evidenced by lower Mg ion concentration and pH of the corrosion media. In addition, the coating decreased the evolved hydrogen. Electrochemical analysis of the corroding samples showed more positive corrosion potential, a decreased corrosion current, and an increase in the polarization resistance. PEDOT/GO corrosion protection is attributed to three factors; an initial passive layer preventing solution ingress, buildup of negative charges in the film, and formation of corrosion protective Mg phosphate layer through redox coupling with Mg corrosion. To explore the biocompatibility of the coated implants in vitro, corrosion media from PEDOT/GO coated or uncoated Mg samples were exposed to cultured neurons where PEDOT/GO coated samples showed decreased toxicity. These results suggest that PEDOT/GO coating will be an effective treatment for controlling corrosion of Mg based medical implants. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Coating Mg substrates with a PEDOT/GO composite coating showed a significant decrease in corrosion rate. While conducting polymer coatings have been used to prevent corrosion on various metals, there has been little work on the use of these coatings for Mg. Additionally, to our knowledge, there has not been a report of the combined used of conducting polymer and GO as a corrosion control layer. Corrosion control is attributed to an initial barrier layer followed by electrochemical coupling of the PEDOT/GO coating with the substrate to facilitate the formation of a protective phosphate layer. This coupling also resulted in a decrease in hydrogen produced during corrosion, which could further improve the host tissue integration of Mg implants. This work elaborates on the potential for electroactive polymers to serve as corrosion control methods.
BACKGROUND: Luminex single-antigen assay is a promising technique for determination of donor-specific antibodies (DSAs) in renal transplantation. METHODS: Serum samples from living-relative renal recipients before and after renal transplantation were examined with the use of Luminex single-antigen assay. The impact of de novo DSAs on the early clinical outcomes of renal allograft was analyzed. RESULTS: Of the 61 patients included, 15 patients (24.6%) presented de novo DSA (4 class I, 4 class II, and 7 both classes) after transplantation, and the average (median) cumulative strength of DSA was 1,283 (range, 0-10,802) mean fluorescence index (MFI) for class I versus 1,324 (range, 0-14,985) MFI for class II (P > .05). Twelve (19.7%) of the 61 patients experienced a clinical/subclinical acute rejection (AR) episode within the 1st 2 years after transplantation. A clinical/subclinical AR episode was diagnosed in 40% of DSA(+) patients and 13.0% of DSA(-) patients (P < .05). DSA(+) patients who developed an AR episode had a higher mean cumulative MFI value (8,118.3 +/- 5,287.4; range, 1,785-14,985) than patients who did not develop an AR episode (3,283.7 +/- 2,601.0; range, 786-8,113; P < .05). Serum creatinine levels in the DSA(+) group were significantly higher than in the DSA(-) group at 12 and 24 months after transplantation. The graft survival rates at 2 years in the DSA(+) and DSA(-) groups were not different (86.7% vs 91.3%; P > .05). CONCLUSIONS: Patients with de novo DSAs at high strength may suffer a high risk of developing an AR episode. Therefore, careful monitoring of de novo DSAs with the use of Luminex single-antigen beads may help in early intervention for AR in renal allografts and to minimize renal damage caused by the antibodies.
The morphogenesis of intranuclear inclusion bodies in the proximal convoluted tubules of rat kidney is studied in chronic lead poisoning. In early stages electron dense particles and fibrillar structures in connection with interchromatin granules were observed. The fully developed inclusion bodies showed an electron dense core from which fibrils project outwards forming an irregular coronal framework. By the sulphide silver method for the demonstration of heavy metals an intense reaction was observed in the outer areas of the fibrillar corona after digestion using DNase.
Gamma radiation is established as a procedure for inactivating bacteria, fungal spores and viruses. Sterilization of soft tissue allografts with high dose (60)Co gamma radiation has been shown to have adverse effects on allograft biomechanical properties. In the current study, bone-patellar tendon-bone (BPTB) allografts from 32 mature sheep were divided into two treatment groups: low-dose radiation at 15 kGy (n = 16) and high-dose radiation at 25 kGy (n = 16) with the contralateral limb serving as a 0 kGy (n = 32) non-irradiated control. Half of the tendons from all treatment groups were biomechanically tested to determine bulk BPTB mechanical properties, cancellous bone compressive properties, and interference screw pull-out strength. The remaining tissues were prepared, implanted, and mechanically tested in an acute in vitro anterior crucial ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Low-dose radiation did not adversely affect mechanical properties of the tendon allograft, bone, or ACL reconstruction compared to internal non-irradiated control. However, high-dose radiation compromised bulk tendon load at failure and ultimate strength by 26.9 and 28.9%, respectively (P < 0.05), but demonstrated no negative effect on the cancellous bone compressive properties or interference screw pull-out strength. Our findings suggest that low dose radiation (15 kGy) does not compromise the mechanical integrity of the allograft tissue, yet high dose radiation (25 kGy) significantly alters the biomechanical integrity of the soft tissue constituent.
BACKGROUND: The pollens from Parietaria judaica and Parietaria officinalis are a major cause of pollinosis in Europe. Par o I (13.5 kDa) and Par j I (12 kDa), the major allergens from these species, are highly crossreactive. METHODS: We have immunoscreened a P. judaica pollen cDNA expression library with a rabbit antiserum specific for Par j I and with a serum pool from allergic patients. An immunopositive clone containing a 26 bp insert was further characterized. The insert sequence was determined and the beta-galactosidase fusion protein was partially purified by electroelution from sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) gels. RESULTS: This fusion protein specifically and extensively inhibited Par o I and Par j I binding of a rabbit antiserum and of a serum pool obtained from allergic patients. The antifusion-protein antiserum obtained in a rabbit (anti 6a) specifically precipitated radioiodinated purified Par o I in the double antibody radioimmunoassay (DARIA) and competed with antibodies of sera from allergic patients for the binding to Parietaria pollen extract allergens by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We investigated the prevalence of antibody response towards the 6a epitope in patients naturally sensitized to Parietaria. The presence of 6a specific IgE antibodies was assessed in the sera of 33 patients using inhibition assays. All sera had antibodies with this specificity: the extensive percentage of inhibition reached suggested that they dominated individual ab response. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, the antibody response induced by natural exposure to the pollen of Parietaria appears to be higly focused on a single linear antigenic determinant of the major allergens which may play a relevant role in the development of clinical allergy. This report is, to our knowledge, the first description of a dominant linear epitope of a major allergen.
BACKGROUND: In animal pathogenic bacteria, horizontal gene transfer events (HGT) have been frequently observed in genomic regions that encode functions involved in biosynthesis of the outer membrane located lipopolysaccharide (LPS). As a result, different strains of the same pathogen can have substantially different lps biosynthetic gene clusters. Since LPS is highly antigenic, the variation at lps loci is attributed to be of advantage in evading the host immune system. Although LPS has been suggested as a potentiator of plant defense responses, interstrain variation at lps biosynthetic gene clusters has not been reported for any plant pathogenic bacterium. RESULTS: We report here the complete sequence of a 12.2 kb virulence locus of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) encoding six genes whose products are homologous to functions involved in LPS biosynthesis and transport. All six open reading frames (ORFs) have atypical G+C content and altered codon usage, which are the hallmarks of genomic islands that are acquired by horizontal gene transfer. The lps locus is flanked by highly conserved genes, metB and etfA, respectively encoding cystathionine gamma lyase and electron transport flavoprotein. Interestingly, two different sets of lps genes are present at this locus in the plant pathogens, Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc) and Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri (Xac). The genomic island is present in a number of Xoo strains from India and other Asian countries but is not present in two strains, one from India (BXO8) and another from Nepal (Nepal624) as well as the closely related rice pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoor). TAIL-PCR analysis indicates that sequences related to Xac are present at the lps locus in both BXO8 and Nepal624. The Xoor strain has a hybrid lps gene cluster, with sequences at the metB and etfA ends, being most closely related to sequences from Xac and the tomato pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato respectively. CONCLUSION: This is the first report of hypervariation at an lps locus between different strains of a plant pathogenic bacterium. Our results indicate that multiple HGT events have occurred at this locus in the xanthomonad group of plant pathogens.
Altered glycosylation of mucus and membrane glycoconjugates could explain reported differences in binding of bacterial pathogens to cystic fibrosis (CF) versus normal tissue. However, because bacteria can alter cell surface glycoconjugates, it is not possible to assess the role of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulators (CFTR) in glycosylation in these studies. To address this issue, we have developed quantitative lectin binding assays to compare cell surface glycosylation in well-matched immortalized CF cells and rescued cell lines. The CF airway bronchial epithelial cell line IB3-1 consistently bound more peanut agglutinin (PNA) than its clonal derivative S9, which stably expresses functional wild-type CFTR. Pretreatment with neuraminidase increased PNA binding and abolished the difference between the two cell lines. However, infection of the IB3-1 cells with a replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus encoding CFTR restored CFTR function but did not alter PNA binding to cells. In contrast, treatment with the weak base ammonium chloride increased PNA binding to both cell lines as expected. Our data show that even clonally related CF and rescued cells can exhibit significant differences in carbohydrate processing. Although the differences that we found are consistent with the proposed role for CFTR in modulating intraorganellar pH, our data strongly suggest that they are CFTR independent. These studies add a cautionary note to the interpretation of differences in glycosylation between CF and normal primary tissues and immortalized cells.
Galectin-9 (Gal-9) exerts immunosuppressive effects by inducing apoptosis in T cells that produce interferon-gamma and interleukin (IL)-17. However, Gal-9 can be pro-inflammatory in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated monocytes. Using microarray analysis, we observed that Gal-9 was up-regulated in human dendritic cells (DCs) after dengue virus (DV) infection. The investigation into the immunomodulatory effects and mechanisms of Gal-9 in DCs exposed to DV revealed that DV infection specifically increased mRNA and protein levels of Gal-9 but not those of Gal-1 or Gal-3. Blocking p38, but not c-Jun N-terminal kinase or extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), inhibited DV-induced expression of Gal-9. Reduction in Gal-9 by small interference RNA treatment suppressed DV-stimulated migration of DCs towards the chemoattractants CCL19 and CCL21. In addition, DV-induced IL-12p40 production was reduced after knockdown of Gal-9 in DCs. Furthermore, Gal-9 deficiency suppressed DV-induced activation of nuclear factor-kappaB. Inhibition of DV-induced DC migration under conditions of Gal-9 deficiency was mediated through suppressing ERK activation but not by regulating the expression of CCR7, the receptor for CCL19 and CCL21. Both the reduction in IL-12 production and the suppression of ERK activity might account for the inhibition of DV-induced DC migration after knockdown of Gal-9. In summary, this study reveals the roles of Gal-9 in DV-induced migration of DCs. The findings indicate that Gal-9 might be a therapeutic target for preventing immunopathogenesis induced by DV infection.
Redox properties of a mononuclear copper(II) superoxide complex, (L)Cu(II)-OO(*), supported by a tridentate ligand (L = 1-(2-phenethyl)-5-[2-(2-pyridyl)ethyl]-1,5-diazacyclooctane) have been examined as a model compound of the putative reactive intermediate of peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) and dopamine beta-monooxygenase (DbetaM) (Kunishita et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 2788-2789; Inorg. Chem. 2012, 51, 9465-9480). On the basis of the reactivity toward a series of one-electron reductants, the reduction potential of (L)Cu(II)-OO(*) was estimated to be 0.19 +/- 0.07 V vs SCE in acetone at 298 K (cf. Tahsini et al. Chem.-Eur. J. 2012, 18, 1084-1093). In the reaction of TEMPO-H (2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-N-hydroxide), a simple HAT (hydrogen atom transfer) reaction took place to give the corresponding hydroperoxide complex LCu(II)-OOH, whereas the reaction with phenol derivatives ((X)ArOH) gave the corresponding phenolate adducts, LCu(II)-O(X)Ar, presumably via an acid-base reaction between the superoxide ligand and the phenols. The reaction of (L)Cu(II)-OO(*) with a series of triphenylphosphine derivatives gave the corresponding triphenylphosphine oxides via an electrophilic ionic substitution mechanism with a Hammett rho value as -4.3, whereas the reaction with thioanisole (sulfide) only gave a copper(I) complex. These reactivities of (L)Cu(II)-OO(*) are different from those of a similar end-on superoxide copper(II) complex supported by a tetradentate TMG3tren ligand (1,1,1-Tris{2-[N(2)-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylguanidino)]ethyl}amine (Maiti et al. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 82-85).
Cortical granules are secretory vesicles formed in the eggs of most animals and are essential for the prevention of polyspermy in these organisms. We have studied the biogenesis of cortical granules in sea urchin oocytes by identifying cDNA clones that encode proteins targeted selectively to the cortical granules. These cDNA clones were identified by an immunoscreen of a cDNA library using antibodies to proteins of the fertilization envelope. Four different mRNAs were identified, ranging from 4 kb to 13 kb in length, that encoded proteins targeted specifically to cortical granules. Accumulation of these mRNAs began very early in oogenesis, in oocytes approximately 10-15 microns in diameter, and continued throughout oogenesis. The mRNAs reached peak abundance (on a per cell basis) in germinal vesicle stage oocytes, and the accumulation of each mRNA was linear with respect to oocyte growth. During breakdown of the germinal vesicle these mRNAs were degraded so that in eggs the mRNA signals were at background levels. Antibodies generated to recombinant proteins made from each of these cDNA clones showed that in the oocyte each cognate protein appeared early in oogenesis. These proteins accumulated only in cortical granules: no accumulation was seen in the cytoplasm, in Golgi, or in other vesicles, and no heterogeneity of the contents was seen within the population of cortical granules. Using these antibodies we show that cortical granules accumulated linearly throughout oogenesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Campylobacteriosis is the most frequently reported zoonotic disease in humans within the European Union. The consumption of contaminated chicken meat is considered one of the main sources of human infection. Although there are no official data on the incidence of Campylobacter infection in Italy, the available studies suggest that this infection is a major problem also in Italy. The authors developed a simulation model to quantitatively estimate the expected annual number of human cases of campylobacteriosis in the Italian regions of Abruzzo and Molise, due to the cross-contamination during the handling of Campylobacter jejuni contaminated chicken meat in domestic kitchen. The authors considered two different models for the dose-response relationship, given their crucial effects on the model's outputs. The expected percentage of human population, experiencing Campylobacter gastroenteritis episodes every year in Abruzzo e Molise regions, varied between 0.8% and 1.8%, according to the dose-response model.
1. INTRODUCTION. Data collection is a critical component of multi-center clinical trials. Clinical trials conducted in intensive care units (ICU) are even more difficult because the acute nature of illnesses in ICU settings requires that masses of data be collected in a short time. More than a thousand data points are routinely collected for each study patient. The majority of clinical trials are still "paper-based," even if a remote data entry (RDE) system is utilized. The typical RDE system consists of a computer housed in the CC office and connected by modem to a centralized data coordinating center (DCC). Study data must first be recorded on a paper case report form (CRF), transcribed into the RDE system, and transmitted to the DCC. This approach requires additional monitoring since both the paper CRF and study database must be verified. The paper-based RDE system cannot take full advantage of automatic data checking routines. Much of the effort (and expense) of a clinical trial is ensuring that study data matches the original patient data. 2. METHODS. We have developed an RDE system, Pivot/Remote, that eliminates the need for paper-based CRFs. It creates an innovative, distributed database. The database resides partially at the study clinical centers (CC) and at the DCC. Pivot/Remote is descended from technology introduced with Pivot [1]. Study data is collected at the bedside with laptop computers. A graphical user interface (GUI) allows the display of electronic CRFs that closely mimic the normal paper-based forms. Data entry time is the same as for paper CRFs. Pull-down menus, displaying the possible responses, simplify the process of entering data. Edit checks are performed on most data items. For example, entered dates must conform to some temporal logic imposed by the study. Data must conform to some acceptable range of values. Calculations, such as computing the subject's age or the APACHE II score, are automatically made as the data is entered. Data that is collected serially (BP, HR, etc.) can be displayed graphically in a trend form along with other related variables. An audit trail is created that automatically tracks all changes to the original data, making it possible to reconstruct the CRF to any point in time. On-line help provides information on the study protocol as well as assistance with the use of the system. Electronic security makes it possible to lock certain parts of the CRF once it has been monitored. Completed CRFs are transmitted to the DCC via electronic mail where it is reviewed and merged into the study database. Questions about subject data are transmitted back to the CC via electronic mail. This approach to maintaining the study database is unique in that the study data files are distributed among the CC and DCC. Until a subject's CRF is monitored (verified against the original patient data residing in the hospital record), it logically resides at the CC where it was collected. Copies are transmitted to the DCC and are only read there. Any pre-monitoring changes must be made to the data at the CC. Once the subject's CRF is monitored, it logically moves to the DCC, and any subsequent changes are made at the DCC with copies of the CRF flowing back to the CC. 3. DISCUSSION. Pivot/Remote eliminates the need for paper forms by utilizing portable computers that can be used at the patient bedside. A GUI makes it possible to quickly enter data. Because the user gets instant feedback on possible error conditions, time is saved because the original data is close at hand. The ability to display trended data or variables in the context of other data allows detection of erroneous conditions beyond simple range checks. The logical construction of the database minimizes the problem of managing dual databases (at the CC and DCC) and keeps CC personnel in the loop until all changes are made.
Many information-rich multidimensional experiments in nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy can benefit from a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) enhancement of up to about 2-fold if a decaying signal in an indirect dimension is sampled with nonconsecutive increments, termed nonuniform sampling (NUS). This work provides formal theoretical results and applications to resolve major questions about the scope of the NUS enhancement. First, we introduce the NUS Sensitivity Theorem in which any decreasing sampling density applied to any exponentially decaying signal always results in higher sensitivity (SNR per square root of measurement time) than uniform sampling (US). Several cases will illustrate this theorem and show that even conservative applications of NUS improve sensitivity by useful amounts. Next, we turn to a serious limitation of uniform sampling: the SNR by US decreases for extending evolution times, and thus total experimental times, beyond 1.26T2 (T2 = signal decay constant). Thus, SNR and resolution cannot be simultaneously improved by extending US beyond 1.26T2. We find that NUS can eliminate this constraint, and we introduce the matched NUS SNR Theorem: an exponential sampling density matched to the signal decay always improves the SNR with additional evolution time. Though proved for a specific case, broader classes of NUS densities also improve SNR with evolution time. Applications of these theoretical results are given for a soluble plant natural product and a solid tripeptide (u-(13)C,(15)N-MLF). These formal results clearly demonstrate the inadequacies of applying US to decaying signals in indirect nD-NMR dimensions, supporting a broader adoption of NUS.
Although caregiving has been a major focus for research, little is known about the day-to-day changes in lifestyle faced by caregivers. Yet lifestyle, developed over time, manifests an individual's very identity. Using a multimethod approach, we assessed the perceptions of lifestyle changes and coping patterns of 20 caregivers of first-time stroke survivors in the early poststroke period. An outcome-oriented matrix was employed for qualitative analysis, and findings were expanded by additional quantitative analysis. Three themes emerged: pervasiveness of lifestyle change, cohort differences in the perception of lifestyle change and coping patterns, and primary issues of time and confinement. Findings suggest that strains relative to caregiving may not be confined to direct caregiving activities, but may be related to established patterns of daily life.
The review deals with the world history and the current status of typhoid fever vaccination. It analyzes parenteral and oral killed cellular, oral live attenuated, molecular vaccines are analyzed. The results of field trials of parenteral and oral vaccines in the areas showing different epidemiology and incidence are analyzed. The problems in the designing of molecular typhi vaccines are considered. The results of designing the new generation vaccines S. typhi strains attenuated by means of site-specific mutagenesis and Vi-polysaccharide-protein conjugates are presented.
The prognosis of trisomy 18 is lethal, but recently some long-term survival cases have been recognized. We report here the mortality rate of trisomy 18 based on our hospital data and sporadically published reports in Japan. We collected the 7 previously published reports of mortality and 31 cases from our hospital data with trisomy 18. Our data pool comprised a total of 179 cases of trisomy 18 from 8 institutions. The mortality rates within 24 hours, 7, 28, 60, 180, and 365 days from birth were 14.84% (19/128), 31.01% (40/129), 56.25% (72/128), 64.08% (66/103), 82.17% (106/129), and 90.90% (140/154), respectively. Fourteen of the 154 patients (9.09%) survived for more than 1 year. The Kaplan-Meier survival curves from 78 patients of 5 institutes suggest that trisomy 18 children who have survived over 7 months after birth may have a high probability of long-term survival. We should recognize not only that about 50% of infants with trisomy 18 die within 1 month after birth, but also that about 10% of patients survive over 1 year in Japan. These findings comprise Asia's first clinical statistics concerning trisomy 18, in which the data were collected from multiple institutions. This evidence is valuable in order to perform genetic counseling concerning the natural history of trisomy 18 not only in Japan but also in other countries.
The purpose of this study was to investigate serial ultrasound imaging in rats as a fully non-invasive method to (1) quantify the diameters of splanchnic veins in real time as an indirect surrogate for the capacitance function of those veins, and (2) assess the effects of drugs on venous dimensions. A 21 MHz probe was used on anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats to collect images containing the portal vein (PV), superior mesenteric vein (SMV), abdominal inferior vena cava (IVC), and splenic vein (SpV; used as a landmark in timed studies) and the abdominal aorta (AA). Stable landmarks were established that allowed reproducible quantification of cross-sectional diameters within an animal. The average diameters of vessels measured every 5 min over 45 min remained within 0.75 +/- 0.15% (PV), 0.2 +/- 0.09% (SMV), 0.5 +/- 0.12% (IVC), and 0.38 +/- 0.06% (AA) of baseline (PV: 2.0 +/- 0.12 mm; SMV: 1.7 +/- 0.04 mm; IVC: 3.2 +/- 0.1 mm; AA: 2.3 +/- 0.14 mm). The maximal effects of the vasodilator sodium nitroprusside (SNP; 2 mg/kg, i.v. bolus) on venous diameters were determined 5 min post SNP bolus; the diameters of all noted veins were significantly increased by SNP, while mean arterial pressure (MAP) decreased 29 +/- 4 mmHg. By contrast, administration of the venoconstrictor sarafotoxin (S6c; 5 ng/kg, i.v. bolus) significantly decreased PV and SpV, but not IVC, SMV, or AA, diameters 5 min post S6c bolus; MAP increased by 6 +/- 2 mmHg. In order to determine if resting splanchnic vein diameters were stable over much longer periods of time, vessel diameters were measured every 2 weeks for 8 weeks. Measurements were found to be highly reproducible within animals over this time period. Finally, to evaluate the utility of vein imaging in a chronic condition, images were acquired from 4-week deoxycorticosterone acetate salt (DOCA-salt) hypertensive and normotensive (SHAM) control rats. All vessel diameters increased from baseline while MAP increased (67 +/- 4 mmHg) in DOCA-salt rats compared to SHAM at 4 weeks after pellet implantation. Vessel diameters remained unchanged in SHAM animals. Together, these results support serial ultrasound imaging as a non-invasive, reliable technique able to measure acute and chronic changes in the diameter of splanchnic veins in intact rats.
Polar auxin transport intimately connects plant cell polarity and multicellular patterning. Through the transport of the small molecule indole-3-acetic acid, plant cells integrate their polarities and communicate the degree of their polarization. In this way, they generate an apical-basal axis that serves as a positional reference anchoring subsequent patterning events. Research in recent years has brought the molecular mechanisms underlying auxin perception and auxin transport to light. This knowledge has been used to derive spectacular molecular visualization tools and animated computer simulations, which are now allied in a joint systems biology effort towards a mathematical description of auxin-transport-mediated patterning processes.
We investigated the effects of direct gradual lengthening of the distal stump of a peripheral nerve and subsequent nerve regeneration in rats. A segment 10 mm long was resected from rat sciatic nerve. The distal nerve stump was fixed to a ring and pulled directly at a rate of 1 mm/day using an original external nerve distraction device. After distraction for 10, 15, and 20 days, the lengthened nerves were evaluated macroscopically and immunocytochemically. At day 20, the mean (SD) distances from the ring to the 3 mm and 6 mm distal part, which were marked with sutures on the epineurium, were 7 (0.5) mm and 12.1 (0.5) mm, respectively, and the number of Schwann cells in the lengthening group had increased to twice that of control group. The distal stump of a peripheral nerve including the epineurium, endoneurium, and proliferation of Schwann cells can be lengthened directly. This method also made it possible to lengthen the nerve stump longitudinally and to control both the rate and distance. We think that this method may be used in the treatment of peripheral nerve injury.
Sulfadiazine (SDZ) is an antibiotic frequently administered to livestock, and it alters microbial communities when entering soils with animal manure, but understanding the interactions of these effects to the prevailing climatic regime has eluded researchers. A climatic factor that strongly controls microbial activity is soil moisture. Here, we hypothesized that the effects of SDZ on soil microbial communities will be modulated depending on the soil moisture conditions. To test this hypothesis, we performed a 49-day fully controlled climate chamber pot experiments with soil grown with Dactylis glomerata (L.). Manure-amended pots without or with SDZ contamination were incubated under a dynamic moisture regime (DMR) with repeated drying and rewetting changes of >20 % maximum water holding capacity (WHCmax) in comparison to a control moisture regime (CMR) at an average soil moisture of 38 % WHCmax. We then monitored changes in SDZ concentration as well as in the phenotypic phospholipid fatty acid and genotypic 16S rRNA gene fragment patterns of the microbial community after 7, 20, 27, 34, and 49 days of incubation. The results showed that strongly changing water supply made SDZ accessible to mild extraction in the short term. As a result, and despite rather small SDZ effects on community structures, the PLFA-derived microbial biomass was suppressed in the SDZ-contaminated DMR soils relative to the CMR ones, indicating that dynamic moisture changes accelerate the susceptibility of the soil microbial community to antibiotics.
PURPOSE: Excess laxity in the volar oblique ligament may predispose the thumb to trapeziometacarpal joint osteoarthritis. A greater prevalence of trapeziometacarpal joint osteoarthritis in women suggests a hormonal cause and relaxin is a hormone that may have some involvement. This conclusion emerges from relaxin's diverse tissue tropism, stimulation of collagenase production in cultured fibroblasts, and reports of increased joint laxity during pregnancy. We used immunohistochemistry to assess the potential of the volar oblique ligament to bind relaxin. METHODS: Eight volar oblique ligaments were obtained intraoperatively from perimenopausal women having basal joint arthroplasty with ligament reconstruction using the flexor carpi radialis tendon. Tissue specimens were snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 degrees C until processing. Specimens then were cryosectioned, treated with a chelating rinse, incubated overnight with recombinant human relaxin, fixed, blocked, and exposed to antirelaxin antibody. Treatment with a universal aminoethylcarbizole staining kit was used to visualize areas of ligament-ligand binding. Both tissue and procedural controls served to establish binding specificity. RESULTS: Abundant staining was observed with the positive control (cervix) and all 8 volar oblique ligaments. Little or no staining was present in fibrocartilage (negative control) or procedural controls. CONCLUSIONS: Relaxin binds to the volar oblique ligament with specificity, implying a receptor-mediated process. Limitations of the procedure could not confirm binding saturability, necessitating additional study.
Pretreatment with atorvastatin (ATV) reduces infarct size (IS) and increases myocardial expression of phosphorylated endothelial nitric oxide synthase (p-eNOS), inducible NOS (iNOS), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) in the rat. Inhibiting COX2 abolished the ATV-induced IS limitation without affecting p-eNOS and iNOS expression. We investigated 1) whether 3-day ATV pretreatment limits IS in eNOS(-/-) and iNOS(-/-) mice and 2) whether COX2 expression and/or activation by ATV is eNOS, iNOS, and/or NF-kappaB dependent. Male C57BL/6 wild-type (WT), University of North Carolina eNOS(-/-) and iNOS(-/-) mice received ATV (10 mg.kg(-1).day(-1); ATV(+)) or water alone (ATV(-)) for 3 days. Mice underwent 30 min of coronary artery occlusion and 4 h of reperfusion, or hearts were harvested and subjected to ELISA, immunoblotting, biotin switch, and electrophoretic mobility shift assay. As a result, ATV reduced IS only in the WT mice. ATV increased eNOS, p-eNOS, iNOS, and COX2 levels and activated NF-kappaB in WT mice. It also increased myocardial COX2 activity. In eNOS(-/-) mice, ATV increased COX2 expression but not COX2 activity or iNOS expression. NF-kappaB was not activated by ATV in the eNOS(-/-) mice. In the iNOS(-/-) mice, eNOS and p-eNOS levels were increased but not iNOS and COX2 levels; however, NF-kappaB was activated. In conclusion, both eNOS and iNOS are essential for the IS-limiting effect of ATV. The expression of COX2 by ATV is iNOS, but not eNOS or NF-kappaB, dependent. Activation of COX2 is dependent on iNOS.
The biological function of interleukin-10 (IL-10), a pleiotropic cytokine with an essential role in inflammatory processes, is known to be affected by glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). GAGs are highly negatively charged polysaccharides and integral components of the extracellular matrix with important functions in the biology of many growth factors and cytokines. The molecular mechanism of the IL-10/GAG interaction is unclear. In particular, experimental evidence about IL-10/GAG binding sites is lacking, despite its importance for understanding the biological role of the interaction. Here, we report the experimental determination of a GAG binding site of IL-10. Although no co-crystal structure of the IL-10.GAG complex could be obtained, its structural characterization was possible by NMR spectroscopy. Chemical shift perturbations of IL-10 induced by GAG binding were used to narrow down the location of the binding site and to assess the affinity for different GAG molecules. Subsequent observation of NMR pseudocontact shifts of IL-10 and its heparin ligand, as induced by a protein-attached lanthanide spin label, provided structural restraints for the protein.ligand complex. Using these restraints, pseudocontact shift-based rigid body docking together with molecular dynamics simulations yielded a GAG binding model. The heparin binding site is located at the C-terminal end of helix D and the adjacent DE loop and coincides with a patch of positively charged residues involving arginines 102, 104, 106, and 107 and lysines 117 and 119. This study represents the first experimental characterization of the IL-10.GAG complex structure and provides the starting point for revealing the biological significance of the interaction of IL-10 with GAGs.
Energy and glucose homeostasis are regulated by central serotonin 2C receptors. These receptors are attractive pharmacological targets for the treatment of obesity; however, the identity of the serotonin 2C receptor-expressing neurons that mediate the effects of serotonin and serotonin 2C receptor agonists on energy and glucose homeostasis are unknown. Here, we show that mice lacking serotonin 2C receptors (Htr2c) specifically in pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons had normal body weight but developed glucoregulatory defects including hyperinsulinemia, hyperglucagonemia, hyperglycemia, and insulin resistance. Moreover, these mice did not show anorectic responses to serotonergic agents that suppress appetite and developed hyperphagia and obesity when they were fed a high-fat/high-sugar diet. A requirement of serotonin 2C receptors in POMC neurons for the maintenance of normal energy and glucose homeostasis was further demonstrated when Htr2c loss was induced in POMC neurons in adult mice using a tamoxifen-inducible POMC-cre system. These data demonstrate that serotonin 2C receptor-expressing POMC neurons are required to control energy and glucose homeostasis and implicate POMC neurons as the target for the effect of serotonin 2C receptor agonists on weight-loss induction and improved glycemic control.
We have compared the transcription of the 235-kDa rhoptry protein (p235) multigene family in the lethal (YM) and nonlethal (17X) lines of the rodent malaria parasite Plasmodium yoelii. This protein is thought to be involved in erythrocyte invasion by the parasite. Using a PCR-based approach we demonstrated that both lines have similar p235 families. However, RT-PCR analysis revealed that this similarity is not evident at the level of transcription, with the lethal line not transcribing a whole subset of its p235 gene repetoire. Specific anti-p235 immune pressure induces differences in invasion properties of the lethal line; we were, however, unable to detect any changes in the transcription pattern of the p235 genes associated with this event.
The present review/perspectives article provides a short overview of our current understanding of the molecular genetics of personality. In the first part, the most important gene candidates such as COMT or SLC6A4 gene are presented. Since several seminal review studies have recently been published on different facets of molecular genetics and personality/emotionality, we focus the second half of the present article on new relevant research directions. This includes a stronger focus on animal research based testing of candidate genes (e.g. neuropeptides such as oxytocin and vasopressin) and the use of a priori genotyping to increase statistical power. Moreover, we stress the importance of integrating cross-cultural data in future research designs and of inclusion of epigenetic measures in neuroscientifically oriented personality research. Finally, the Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales are introduced as a new promising tool for biologically oriented psychology/psychiatry research.
BACKGROUND: Targeting protective gene expression to porcine endothelium has obvious advantages in xenotransplantation, but no endothelial cell-specific promoters have yet been used successfully in transgenic pigs. We have previously reported that a human intercellular adhesion molecule-2 (ICAM-2) gene promoter fragment functioned efficiently in transgenic mice but not pigs, suggesting that it lacked important transcriptional signals. In this study, we cloned and characterized regulatory elements of the pig ICAM-2 gene. METHODS: Various segments of the pig ICAM-2 gene upstream region and first intron were cloned into a luciferase reporter vector and assayed for promoter activity in vitro. Putative regulatory elements were analysed by site-directed mutagenesis. RESULTS: A 0.90-kb pig ICAM-2 promoter fragment had strong activity in pig endothelial cells but not in non-endothelial cells. Deletion analysis revealed that the majority of promoter activity was specified by a 0.48-kb sub-fragment with significant homology to the human ICAM-2 promoter. Conserved positive-acting elements included binding sites for GATA and Ets transcription factors, and a palindromic octamer (P(8)) that has been implicated in the endothelial specificity of several genes. Significant enhancer activity was identified within the first intron of the pig ICAM-2 gene. Mutational analysis was used to show that a second P(8) site in the first intron was essential for enhancer activity. CONCLUSIONS: The pig and human ICAM-2 promoters exhibit many similarities, but the pig ICAM-2 gene, unlike its human and mouse homologs, contains P(8) sites in both the promoter and first intron. The enhancer activity associated with the intronic P(8) site suggests that it may be the key to achieving strong endothelial cell-specific transgene expression in pigs.
Highly selective enrichment of (6,5) and (8,3) SWCNTs (above 85% of the semiconducting tubes) was achieved through multistep extraction by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and sodium cholate (SC) cosurfactant solution from narrowly (n,m) distributed SWCNTs produced by the catalyst Co-MCM-41. A systematic change in the chirality selectivity was observed when the weight ratio between SDS and SC varied in cosurfactant solutions, with maximum enrichment selectivity for (6,5) tubes yielded at 1:4. Furthermore, surfactants were washed away easily to produce "clean" SWCNTs. This observation sheds light on the possibility of obtaining SWCNTs with the desired (n,m) structure via an easily scalable approach. No selectivity was detected when using sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate (SDBS)/SC cosurfactants, hence suggesting the need for further exploration of various cosurfactant combinations for more effective extraction of different (n,m) species.
The incidence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is increasing and GDM might be prevented by improving diet. Few interventions have assessed the effects of dietary counselling on dietary intake of pregnant women. This study examined the effects of dietary counselling on food habits and dietary intake of Finnish pregnant women as secondary outcomes of a trial primarily aiming at preventing GDM. A cluster-randomized controlled trial was conducted in 14 municipalities in Finland, including 399 pregnant women at increased risk for developing GDM. The intervention consisted of dietary counselling focusing on dietary fat, fibre and saccharose intake at four routine maternity clinic visits. Usual counselling practices were continued in the usual care municipalities. A validated 181-item food frequency questionnaire was used to assess changes in diet from baseline to 26-28 and 36-37 weeks gestation. The data were analysed using multilevel mixed-effects linear regression models. By 36-37 weeks gestation, the intervention had beneficial effects on total intake of vegetables, fruits and berries (coefficient for between-group difference in change 61.6 g day(-1), 95% confidence interval 25.7-97.6), the proportions of high-fibre bread of all bread (7.2% units, 2.5-11.9), low-fat cheeses of all cheeses (10.7% units, 2.6-18.9) and vegetable fats of all dietary fats (6.1% -units, 2.0-10.3), and the intake of saturated fatty acids (-0.67 energy-%-units, -1.16 to -0.19), polyunsaturated fatty acids (0.38 energy-%-units, 0.18-0.58), linoleic acid (764 mg day(-1), 173-1354) and fibre (2.07 g day(-1) , 0.39-3.75). The intervention improved diet towards the recommendations in pregnant women at increased risk for GDM suggesting the counselling methods could be implemented in maternity care.
PURPOSE: To determine which specific comorbidities predispose men to excess mortality by androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) given before and during brachytherapy for prostate cancer. METHODS AND MATERIALS: We analyzed 5972 men with T1c-T3b prostate cancer treated with brachytherapy-based radiation with or without neoadjuvant ADT. Cox multivariable analysis with propensity scoring was used to determine if ADT was associated with increased all-cause mortality (ACM) in men divided into groups stratified by cardiac comorbidities. Tests for interaction between risk group and outcome were performed. RESULTS: ADT was associated with increased ACM in men with a history of myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure, regardless of whether they underwent revascularization (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR], 2.1 [95% confidence interval {CI}, 1.02-4.17; p=0.04]) or not (AHR, 1.8 [95% CI, 1.05-3.20; p = 0.03]), but this effect was not seen in men with less severe comorbidity. However, among men with diabetes, there was a significant interaction with risk group (p=0.01) such that ADT was associated with excess mortality in men with low-risk disease (AHR = 2.21 [1.04-4.68]; p=0.04) but not in men with intermediate or high-risk disease (AHR, 0.64 [0.33-1.22]; p=0.17). CONCLUSIONS: ADT was associated with excess ACM in all patients with a history of congestive heart failure or myocardial infarction, regardless of whether they were revascularized, and in diabetics with low-risk disease. ADT for gland downsizing before brachytherapy should be avoided in these men.
Although superficial bladder cancer, usually presenting as low grade transitional cell carcinomas, are easily resected by transurethral intervention, their frequent recurrence and progression of satage or grade of the recurrent tumors in some cases is a major problem in urology. Deletion of chromosome 9, bands 9p21-22 in bladder cancers including the lowest grade and stage, suggest potential location of candidate tumor suppressor genes. Recently, p16/MTS1 was isolated from 9p21-22 as a multiple tumor suppressor gene, which regulates the cyclin dependent kinase 4 in the G1/S phase of the cell cycle. In the present study, somatic alterations of p16/MTS1 were examined concentrating on histologically defined superficial bladder carcinomas by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) technique using paraffin embedded materials. Infrequent alterations of p16/MTS1 in superficial bladder cancers, one deletion and one silent mutation in 15 cases, were detected. The results suggest that p16/MTS1 mutation is not involved in the development of superficial urinary bladder carcinomas.
PURPOSE: This study examined relationships between verbal abuse from nurse colleagues and demographic characteristics, work attributes, and work attitudes of early career registered nurses (RNs). DESIGN AND METHODS: Data are from the fourth wave of a national panel survey of early career RNs begun in 2006. The final analytic sample included 1,407 RNs. Descriptive statistics were used to describe the sample, analysis of variance to compare means, and chi square to compare categorical variables. FINDINGS: RNs reporting higher levels of verbal abuse from nurse colleagues were more likely to be unmarried, work in a hospital setting, or work in a non-magnet hospital. They also had lower job satisfaction, and less organizational commitment, autonomy, and intent to stay. Lastly, they perceived their work environments unfavorably. CONCLUSIONS: Data support the hypothesis that early career RNs are vulnerable to the effects of verbal abuse from nurse colleagues. Although more verbal abuse is seen in environments with unfavorable working conditions, and RNs working in such environments tend to have less favorable work attitudes, one cannot assume causality. It is unclear if poor working conditions create an environment where verbal abuse is tolerated or if verbal abuse creates an unfavorable work environment. CLINICAL RELEVANCE: There is a need to develop and test evidence-based interventions to deal with the problems inherent with verbal abuse from nurse colleagues.
RNA silencing is a gene regulatory and host defense mechanism whereby small RNA molecules are engaged by Argonaute (AGO) proteins, which facilitate gene knockdown of complementary mRNA targets. Small molecule inhibitors of AGO represent a convenient method for reversing this effect and have applications in human therapy and biotechnology. Viral suppressors of RNA silencing, such as p19, can also be used to suppress the pathway. Here we assess the compatibility of these two approaches, by examining whether synthetic inhibitors of AGO would inhibit p19-siRNA interactions. We observe that aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA) is a potent inhibitor of p19's ability to bind siRNA (IC50 = 0.43 muM), oxidopamine does not inhibit p19:siRNA interactions, and suramin is a mild inhibitor of p19:siRNA interactions (IC50 = 430 muM). We observe that p19 and suramin are compatible inhibitors of RNA silencing in human hepatoma cells. Our data suggests that at least some inhibitors of AGO may be used in combination with p19 to inhibit RNA silencing at different points in the pathway.
We compare Bayesian methodology utilizing free-ware BUGS (Bayesian Inference Using Gibbs Sampling) with the traditional structural equation modelling approach based on another free-ware package, Mx. Dichotomous and ordinal (three category) twin data were simulated according to different additive genetic and common environment models for phenotypic variation. Practical issues are discussed in using Gibbs sampling as implemented by BUGS to fit subject-specific Bayesian generalized linear models, where the components of variation may be estimated directly. The simulation study (based on 2000 twin pairs) indicated that there is a consistent advantage in using the Bayesian method to detect a "correct" model under certain specifications of additive genetics and common environmental effects. For binary data, both methods had difficulty in detecting the correct model when the additive genetic effect was low (between 10 and 20%) or of moderate range (between 20 and 40%). Furthermore, neither method could adequately detect a correct model that included a modest common environmental effect (20%) even when the additive genetic effect was large (50%). Power was significantly improved with ordinal data for most scenarios, except for the case of low heritability under a true ACE model. We illustrate and compare both methods using data from 1239 twin pairs over the age of 50 years, who were registered with the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council Twin Registry (ATR) and presented symptoms associated with osteoarthritis occurring in joints of the hand.
The reduction in 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) to a coloured formazan compound by cultured cells has been extensively used as an in vitro model for understanding neurobiological mechanisms involved in amyloid beta-protein (A beta-mediated cell death. In primary cultures of astrocytes, very low concentrations of aggregated A beta 1-4C, but not A beta 4C-1, produced a significant inhibition in the reduction of the dye MTT. This inhibitory response was rapid and persisted as long as A beta 1-4C was present in the culture medium. Such a severe reduction in cell redox activity for days failed to cause death of astroglial cells, measured in terms of trypan blue uptake and lactate dehydrogenase release. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), which is known to attenuate excitotoxic neurodegeneration, had no effect on A beta 1-4C-induced inhibition of MTT reduction. These results suggest that even though inhibition of MTT reduction represents an early indicator of the A beta 1-4C mediated cell injury, without other corroborating evidence, it should not be used as a measure of cell death.
Recent technological advances in accurate mass spectrometry and data analysis have revolutionized metabolomics experimentation. Activity-based and global metabolomic profiling methods allow simultaneous and rapid screening of hundreds of metabolites from a variety of chemical classes, making them useful tools for the discovery of novel enzymatic activities and metabolic pathways. By using the metabolome of the relevant organism or close species, these methods capitalize on biological relevance, avoiding the assignment of artificial and non-physiological functions. This review discusses state-of-the-art metabolomic approaches and highlights recent examples of their use for enzyme annotation, discovery of new metabolic pathways, and gene assignment of orphan metabolic activities across diverse biological sources.
BACKGROUND: The increasing incidence and prevalence of atopic dermatitis (AD) have led to a requirement for new means to treat the disease. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy of the novel immunomodulator FTY720 (Fingolimod), alone and in combination with betamethasone valerate ointment, in the NC/Nga mouse model of mite-induced intractable dermatitis. METHODS: Female NC/Nga mice in which dermatitis had been induced with Dermatophagoides farinae were divided into six groups: 1) a betamethasone group (betamethasone ointment, six times a week), 2) an FTY720 group (FTY720, orally, three times a week), 3) an FTY720 plus betamethasone ointment group, 4) an ointment base group (ointment base, six times a week), 5) an FTY720 plus ointment base group and 6) a placebo group (vehicle alone). The therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in terms of the severity of dermatitis and histochemical observations after two weeks of treatment. RESULTS: Betamethasone treatment had little effect, confirming that the dermatitis was intractable. In the FTY720 plus betamethasone ointment group, the dermatitis was significantly improved as compared with the betamethasone ointment and placebo groups. This combination therapy also suppressed epidermal hypertrophy and accumulation of mast cells and CD3+T-cells in dermis, all of which were observed in mice in which the dermatitis had become established. CONCLUSION: Our results strongly suggest that the combination of FTY720 plus betamethasone ointment is a promising candidate for treatment of intractable human AD.
There is an important and strong, but complex influence of the tumor microenvironment on tumor cells' phenotype, aggressiveness, and treatment sensitivity. One of the most frequent and best-studied aspects of the tumor microenvironment is hypoxia. Low oxygen tension often occurs in tumor cells by several mechanisms, for example, poor angiogenesis and increased oxygen consumption. Hypoxia is a heterogeneous concept with oxygen tensions ranging from <0.01% (anoxia) to 5%, and can be chronic, acute, or cycling, all with differential effects on tumor cells. Quantification of tumor hypoxia can be performed directly or indirectly, and with exogenous or endogenous markers. Tumor cells launch different intracellular signaling pathways to survive hypoxia, such as hypoxia-inducible factor 1-mediated gene expression, the unfolded protein response, and AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin signaling. These pathways induce aggressive, metastatic, and treatment-insensitive tumors and are considered potential targets for (additive) therapy. Hypoxia leads to important, yet currently not well-understood changes in microRNA expression, epigenetics, and metabolism. Further, treatment-insensitive tumors arise through hypoxia-induced Darwinian selection of apoptosis-deficient, p53-mutated tumor cells. In conclusion, hypoxia has profound and largely still poorly understood effects on tumor cells with a major effect on the tumor's biology.
Infections of the bone, spine and prosthetic joints are serious and complex conditions to diagnose and to treat. Structured diagnostic workup may very well improve the accuracy and speed of diagnosis, thereby improving the outcome since treatment may very well be more successful and less harmful if timely management is started. Literature shows no uniform advise on diagnosis. The EANM organized a consensus meeting with representatives from the involved disciplines in order to develop common flowcharts for the diagnosis of osteomyelitis, spondylodiscitis and prosthetic joint infections. In this report the proceedings of this consensus meeting, including the proposed flowcharts for diagnosis, are published.
The scaffolding proteins of double-stranded DNA viruses are required for the polymerization of capsid subunits into properly sized closed shells but are absent from the mature virions. Phage P22 scaffolding subunits are elongated 33-kDa molecules that copolymerize with coat subunits into icosahedral precursor shells and subsequently exit from the precursor shell through channels in the procapsid lattice to participate in further rounds of polymerization and dissociation. Purified scaffolding subunits could be refolded in vitro after denaturation by high temperature or guanidine hydrochloride solutions. The lack of coincidence of fluorescence and circular dichroism signals indicated the presence of at least one partially folded intermediate, suggesting that the protein consisted of multiple domains. Proteolytic fragments containing the C terminus were competent for copolymerization with capsid subunits into procapsid shells in vitro, whereas the N terminus was not needed for this function. Proteolysis of partially denatured scaffolding subunits indicated that it was the capsid-binding C-terminal domain that unfolded at low temperatures and guanidinium concentrations. The minimal stability of the coat-binding domain may reflect its role in the conformational switching needed for icosahedral shell assembly.
The Drosophila TATA box-binding protein (TBP)-related factor 2 (TRF2 or TLF) was shown to control a subset of genes different from that controlled by TBP. Here, we have investigated the structure and functions of the trf2 gene. We demonstrate that it encodes two protein isoforms: the previously described 75-kDa TRF2 and a newly identified 175-kDa version in which the same sequence is preceded by a long N-terminal domain with coiled-coil motifs. Chromatography of Drosophila embryo extracts revealed that the long TRF2 is part of a multiprotein complex also containing ISWI. Both TRF2 forms are detected at the same sites on polytene chromosomes and have the same expression patterns, suggesting that they fulfill similar functions. A study of the manifestations of the trf2 mutation suggests an essential role of TRF2 during embryonic Drosophila development. The trf2 gene is strongly expressed in germ line cells of adult flies. High levels of TRF2 are found in nuclei of primary spermatocytes and trophocytes with intense transcription. In ovaries, TRF2 is present both in actively transcribing nurse cells and in the transcriptionally inactive oocyte nuclei. Moreover, TRF2 is essential for premeiotic chromatin condensation and proper differentiation of germ cells of both sexes.
This study determined whether comprehensive microbiological analysis offered real predictive value in terms of healing outcome, and assessed the clinical usefulness of surface swabs vs. tissue biopsies for clinically noninfected leg wounds. The wound microflora of 70 patients with chronic venous leg ulcers was quantified after sampling by swabbing and biopsy. A highly significant association between wound surface area at 4 weeks and eventual healing at 6 months was found (p<0.001), although initial wound size, sex, height, and weight were not significant predictors of outcome (p>0.1). A significant association between healing and bacterial diversity in the wound as assessed by swab (p=0.023) was demonstrated. Furthermore, the bacterial density of wound surface area by swab (CFU/mL; p=0.018) or biopsy (CFU/g tissue; p=0.038) were shown to be independent predictors of nonhealing. Logistic regression showed that microbiological analysis of biopsies provided no additional prognostic information when compared with analysis of the surface microflora (p=0.27). Hence, if biopsies do not contribute significantly to patient management, their use should be discouraged in clinically noninfected wounds. Furthermore, independent predictors of healing, such as wound surface microbial diversity and density, could identify patients likely to have an unfavorable outcome and to whom resources should be targeted.
Together with ATP, the C-terminal region of the essential streptococcal FtsA protein acts as an intramolecular switch to promote its polymerization and attachment to the membrane. During septation, FtsA is known to anchor the constricting FtsZ ring and, subsequently, the divisome to the membrane. Truncation of the C terminus of the streptococcal FtsA (FtsADeltaCt) facilitates a more rapid ATP-dependent polymerization in solution than is seen with the full-length protein (FtsA(+)). The FtsADeltaCt polymers are more organized and compact than those formed in solution by FtsA(+), resembling the shape of the membrane-associated FtsA(+) polymers. We find that ATP, besides being needed for polymerization, is required for the attachment of FtsA(+) to lipid monolayers and to vesicle membranes. We propose a model in which the binding of ATP activates a switch favoring the polymerization of FtsA and at the same time driving the amphipathic helix at its C terminus to become attached to the membrane. Conversely, when FtsA is in the cytoplasm, the C terminus is not engaged in the attachment to the membrane, and it obstructs polymerization. ATP-dependent polymerization of FtsA inside membrane vesicles causes vesicle shrinkage, suggesting that, besides providing a membrane attachment for FtsZ, the FtsA C terminus may also introduce local alterations in the membrane to facilitate septation. IMPORTANCE: FtsA is a protein needed in many bacteria to construct a septum that divides one fully grown cell, producing two daughters. We show that the region located at the C-terminal end of the Streptococcus pneumoniae FtsA protein works as a switch triggered by ATP, a molecule that stores energy. This region contains an amphipathic helix that obstructs the assembly of FtsA into polymers in the cytoplasm. In the presence of ATP, the obstruction is removed by switching the position of the helix. The switch directs the helix to the membrane and simultaneously facilitates the polymerization of the protein. The accumulation of FtsA molecules at the membrane causes distortions, an effect produced also by proteins such as MinD, MreB, and SepF that also contain amphipathic helixes as membrane attachment devices. In the case of FtsA, these distortions may also facilitate the initial events that lead to the division of bacteria.
OBJECTIVE: To monitor hospital-wide trends in the prevalence of hospital-acquired infections (HAIs) in order to identify areas where the risk of infection is increasing. METHODS: Successive surveillance surveys were conducted twice yearly, from November 2001 until May 2004, to determine the prevalence of HAIs at 2 Dutch hospitals, using Centers for Disease Control and Prevention criteria. RESULTS: In all, 340 HAIs were observed in 295 (11.1%) of 2,661 patients surveyed. The overall prevalence per survey varied from 10.2% to 15.6%, with no significant differences between successive surveys. In the surgical department, the prevalence of HAIs increased from 10.8 cases per 100 surgeries in November 2001 to 20.4 cases per 100 surgeries in May 2002. Further analysis revealed a high prevalence of surgical site infection among patients who had an orthopedic procedure performed. In the neurology-neurosurgery department, the prevalence increased from 13.0 cases per 100 patients in May 2002 to 26.6 cases per 100 patients in May 2003 and involved several types of infection. Further analysis retrieved exceptionally high incidences of infections associated with cerebrospinal fluid drainage. Specific infection control interventions were developed and implemented in both departments. The total cost of the surveys was estimated to be euro9,100 per year. CONCLUSION: Successive performance of surveillance surveys is a simple and cheap method to monitor the prevalence of infection throughout the hospital and appeared instrumental in identifying 2 departments with increased infection rates.
Biomechanical explanations are fundamental to studies of functional dental morphology. Until recently foods were not classified in mechanical categories amenable to a rigorous examination of the fundamental physical relationship between teeth and foods. Fruit, insect and leaf categories, although descriptive, are mechanically heterogeneous. The diets of five Malagasy lemur taxa were described in terms of two mechanical properties, hardness and shear strength, in an earlier study (Yamashita, 1996b). In the present study, correlations between these two physical food properties and second molar tooth features of two lemur families are examined. Several relationships are hypothesized: 1) crest length is expected to be positively correlated with food shear strength; 2) the radius of curvature (r) of cusps is expected to be positively correlated with food hardness; and 3) basin area should increase relative to cusp radius as food hardness increases, and cusp-to-basin ratios should decrease with increasing food hardness. Two additional hypotheses address the debate concerning the relative influences of the most frequently eaten foods versus the most stressful foods in determining tooth form. The results of the predicted relationships are equivocal. 1) Crest length is negatively instead of positively correlated with strong foods. Crest lengths are correlated with quantities of leaf consumption, which are related to leaf shape more than to material composition. 2) As expected, r is positively correlated with food hardness and negatively with shear strength, but this applies to upper molar cusps only. Lower molar cusps complicate simple generalizations of relationships. 3) Hard foods are correlated with a tight fit of occluding cusps and basins instead of the expected loose fit. The most stressful foods eaten (hardest and strongest) have higher correlations with tooth features than the most frequently eaten foods. Several functional complexes can be identified. Hard food items are correlated with short cusps in lemurids, tight occlusal fit, small trigon and large talonid areas, and deep, acute basins. Large, shallow trigons, shallow, unrestricted talonids, and large upper molar basins are indicative of a diet of strong foods. These results demonstrate that some variation in tooth features is explicable with reference to mechanical properties of diet, although the relationships are complex.
BACKGROUND: Ischemia-reperfusion injury is one of the major problems in organ transplantation. The role of platelet-activating factor (PAF) in the pathophysiology of ischemia-reperfusion injury and the protective effect of a novel phospholipid PAF analog (TCV-309) alone and combined with prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) is investigated in an extended (20 hours) ex vivo lung preservation. METHODS: Forty-two swine were divided into three groups. Group A was the control. In groups B and C, the effect of PAF was blocked with TCV-309 administered 1 hour before cross-clamping for donor and recipient. Group C received PGE1 50 micrograms bolus in the donor pulmonary plegia, and the recipients received a 50 micrograms bolus plus 0.003 microgram/kg/min infusion at the time of implantation. Donor lungs were perfused with cold modified Collins solution and maintained in hypothermic storage (4 degrees C) for 20 hours. Hemodynamics, lung mechanics, gas exchange, and biochemistry were assessed before transplantation (donor) and at 30 minutes and 24 hours after reperfusion (recipient). At 24 hours after reperfusion, the histopathologic condition of transplanted lungs was evaluated. RESULTS: Radioimmunoassay demonstrated a significant (p < 0.001) increase in the production of PAF and TXB2 in transplanted lungs at 24 hours after transplantation for group A only. Hemodynamics, gas-exchange parameters, and lung compliance were significantly (p < 0.05) better after transplantation for groups B and C. Wet lung weight was significantly less (p < 0.05) for group C. Semiquantitative morphometric analysis demonstrated the highest degree of damage for group A compared with groups B and C. A strong correlation (r2 = 70) between lung weight and histologic injury scores was observed among groups. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that PAF is responsible in part for the deleterious effects of ischemia and reperfusion, that PAF-antagonist TCV-309 protects lungs from extended (20 hours) ischemic injury, and that PGE1 seems to have an additional beneficial effect.
The WHO has listed Alzheimer's disease among the major neurological disorders with an estimated 35 million people affected worldwide. Amyloid-beta is mostly believed to be the causative factor in Alzheimer's disease and the severity of the disease correlates with the tendency of amyloid-beta to form aggregation patterns-plaques. Lacking effective medication, the identification of any underlying mechanistic principles regarding plaque formation appears to be crucial. Here we carry out computer simulations to study the effect of C60 on structure and stability of an idealised pentameric construct of amyloid-beta units (a model fibril). A binding site on top of the structurally ordered stack of beta-sheets is identified that triggers structural alterations at the turn region of the hook-like beta-sheet assembly. Significant structural alterations are: (i) the destruction of regular helical twist, (ii) the loss of a stabilizing salt bridge and (iii) the loss of a stabilizing hydrophobic interaction close to the turn. Consequently, the main effect of C60 is the induction of sizable destabilization in native fibril structure. These structural insights may serve as a molecular guide for further rational drug design of effective inhibitors targeting fibril formation in Alzheimer's disease.
Influence of L(+)-tartrate was studied on certain enzymes, protein bound carbohydrates and lipids in the renal tissues of experimentally induced stone forming rats. The elevation in kidney LDH was moderate in the stone forming groups while tartrate had no effect. The significant increases in the activities of (Na+, K+)- and (Ca2+)-ATPases in the calculogenic group was lowered to that of normal level with tartrate administration. Acid phosphatase activity was significantly lowered in the tartrate treated groups. The significant reduction in phospholipids and elevation in sialic acid levels during stone formation are suggestive of minor alterations in the cellular structure. The changes in the transport ATPases is likely to affect the transport mechanism of nutrients and ions.
Numerous host components are encountered by viruses during the infection process. While some of these host structures are left unchanged, others may go through dramatic remodeling processes. In this review, we summarize these host changes that occur during small DNA virus infections, with a focus on host nuclear components and pathways. Although these viruses differ significantly in their genome structures and infectious pathways, there are common nuclear targets that are altered by various viral factors. Accumulating evidence suggests that these nuclear remodeling processes are often essential for productive viral infections and/or viral-induced transformation. Understanding the complex interactions between viruses and these host structures and pathways will help to build a more integrated network of how the virus completes its life cycle and point toward the design of novel therapeutic regimens that either prevent harmful viral infections or employ viruses as nontraditional treatment options or molecular tools.
Clinical aspects of the mother-infant relationship and related issues are well studied and very relevant to medical practice. Nevertheless, some approaches in this context cannot plausibly be investigated in humans due to their ethical implications and to the potential harm to the mother's and child's health. Studies on maternal behavior in animals have evident importance to some clinical fields, such as psychiatry and psychology, particularly considering topics, including mother-infant relationship, postpartum depression, cognitive and behavioral development of children, and associated issues. Hence, this theoretical article draws attention to the clinical applicability of studies about maternal behavior in animals to psychobiology, taking into account a translational perspective.
Oral inoculation of human rotavirus MO strain (serotype 3) into 5-day-old BALB/c mice cause gastroenteritis characterized by diarrhea. Clinical symptoms, histopathological changes in the small intestine, and the detection of rotavirus antigen in enterocytes were all characteristic of rotavirus-induced gastroenteritis. Using this small animal model, passive protection of suckling mice against human rotavirus infection was achieved with the use of immunoglobulin (IgY) from the yolks of eggs of rotavirus-immunized hens. When IgY against a rotavirus strain homotypic to the challenge virus (MO strain) was administered in the mice, complete protection against rotavirus infection was achieved. On the other hand, with oral administration of IgY against a heterotypic strain (serotype 1, Wa strain), a lower protective effect was nevertheless obtained. The four different strains of human rotavirus (Wa, KUN, MO, and ST3) were inactivated in vitro by treatment with PSK, a protein-bound polysaccharide preparation, in a dose-dependent manner. Oral administration of 2.5 mg of PSK caused a therapeutic effect on experimentally MO-infected suckling mice. The antiviral effect of PSK was indicated by the reduction of the duration of diarrhea.
IFN-lambda induces an antiviral state in many cell types and may contribute to the overall inflammatory environment after infection. Either of these effects may influence adaptive immune responses, but the role of type 3 IFNs in the development of primary and memory T cell responses to infection has not been evaluated. In this study, we examined T cell responses to acute or persistent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection in IFN-lambdaR1-deficient mice. Following acute infection, we find that IFN-lambdaR1-deficient mice produced normal levels of IFN, robust NK cell responses, but greater than normal CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses compared with wild type BALB/c mice. There were more T cells that were IL-7R(hi) and, correspondingly, the IFN-lambdaR-deficient mice showed a 2- to 3-fold increase in memory T cell number. The inhibitory effect of IFN-lambdaR expression was independent of direct cytokine signaling into T cells. In contrast with acute infection, the IFN-lambdaR-deficient mice generated markedly diminished T cell responses and had greater weight loss compared with wild type mice when confronted with a highly disseminating variant of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus. These data indicate that IFN-lambdaR limits T cell responses and memory after transient infection but augments T cell responses during persisting infection. Thus, the immune-regulatory functions for IFN-lambdaR are complex and vary with the overall inflammatory environment.
We describe a 7-year-old girl with mild mental retardation and minor dysmorphism. The karyotype was 46,XX,del(4)(p12p15.1). The clinical and cytogenetical findings are compared with 19 previous reported cases of interstitial 4p deletions.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the surgical and hardware complications in 26 consecutive patients with movement disorders undergoing subthalamic deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) in early practice at our institute. METHODS: The 26 patients in our institute were analyzed retrospectively. Group A included the first eight patients treated while we had no facility for microelectrode recording (MER), 16 intracranial procedures were performed and 8 batteries were implanted. Group B (with MER) included 18 patients, 35 intracranial procedures were performed and 18 batteries were implanted. RESULTS: The intracranial morbidity was 18.75% in group A and 5.71% in group B. The extracranial morbidity was 37.5% in group A and 16.67% in group B. There was no hardware-related infection in our study. The overall mortality rate was 7.69%, and deaths were not surgical related. CONCLUSIONS: The associated morbidity is significant in STN-DBS. The use of MER may improve the clinical outcome while decreasing the morbidity.
The investigators have conducted a series of four descriptive, clinical studies to examine the nature of restraint use in extended care and nursing home units in a veterans' facility. Based on the findings of three of these studies, staff education and policy changes were implemented with the intent of decreasing the use of restraints. The present and fourth study in the series examines whether the use of restraints decreased from 1990 to 1993, after policy changes and staff education were initiated. Findings indicate that the frequency of restraint use decreased by almost half, from 25% to 14%. In addition, falls did not increase, but those falling were less likely to be restrained. These findings illustrate the importance of research in setting a course for positive change in clinical practice.
Microglia were isolated from a murine neonatal brain cell culture in which their development had been stimulated by supplementation with the macrophage/microglial growth factor macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). Using the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique, voltage-gated membrane currents were recorded from these microglial cells. Hyperpolarization induced inward rectifying K+ currents, as described for microglia from untreated cultures. These currents activated negative to the K+ equilibrium potential and, with a strong hyperpolarization, displayed time-dependent inactivation. The inactivation was abolished when extracellular NaCl was replaced by N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMG), thereby indicating a partial block of this K+ conductance by Na+. Inward rectifying currents were also blocked by extracellularly applied Cs+ or Ba2+. They were slightly diminished following treatment with extracellular tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA) but were not affected by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). Upon long lasting depolarizing voltage pulses to potentials positive to 0 mV, the cells exhibited a slowly activating H+ current which could be reduced by application of inorganic polyvalent cations (Ba2+, Cd2+, Co2+, La3+, Ni2+, Zn2+) as well as by 4-AP or TEA. Based on their kinetics and pharmacological characteristics, both currents detected on M-CSF-grown microglia are suggested to correspond to the inward rectifier and the H+ current of macrophages.
Life course epidemiology seeks to understand how determinants of health and disease interact across the span of a human life, and has made significant contributions to understanding etiological mechanisms in many chronic diseases, including schizophrenia. The life course approach is ideal for understanding depression: causation in depression appears to be multifactorial, including interactions between genes and stressful events, or between early life trauma and later stress in life; timing of onset and remission of depression varies widely, indicating differing trajectories of symptoms over long periods of time, with possible differing causes and differing outcomes; and early life events and development appear to be important risk factors for depression, including exposure to acute and chronic stress in the first years of life. To better understand etiology and outcome of depression, future research must move beyond basic epidemiologic techniques that link specific exposures to specific outcomes and embrace life course principles and methods. Time-sensitive modelling techniques that are able to incorporate multiple interacting factors across long periods of time, such as structural equation models, will be critical in understanding the complexity of causal and influencing factors from early development to the end stages of life. Using these models to identify key pathways that influence trajectories of depression across the life course will help guide prevention and intervention.
CD38 is a progression marker in HIV-1 infection, it displays lateral association with CD4, and down-modulates gp120/CD4 binding. The aim of this study was to elucidate the mechanism behind the interplay between CD4, CD38, and HIV-1. We used mouse cell transfectants expressing human CD4 and either CD38 or other CD4-associated molecules to show that CD38 specifically inhibits gp120/CD4 binding. Human cell transfectants expressing truncated forms of CD38 and bioinformatic analysis were used to map the anti-HIV activity and show that it is concentrated in the membrane-proximal region. This region displayed significant sequence-similarity with the V3 loop of the HIV-1 gp120 glycoprotein. In line with this similarity, synthetic soluble peptides derived from this region reproduced the anti-HIV effects of full-length CD38 and inhibited HIV-1 and HIV-2 primary isolates from different subtypes and with different coreceptor use. A multiple-branched peptide construct presenting part of the sequence of the V3-like region potently and selectively inhibited HIV-1 replication in the nanomolar range. Conversely, a deletion in the V3-like region abrogated the anti-HIV-1 activity of CD38 and its lateral association with CD4. These findings may provide new insights into the early events of HIV-1 fusion and strategies to intervene.
A 5.8-kb fragment of the large conjugative plasmid pAW63 from Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki HD73 containing all the information for autonomous replication was cloned and sequenced. By deletion analysis, the pAW63 replicon was reduced to a 4.1-kb fragment harboring four open reading frames (ORFs). Rep63A (513 amino acids [aa]), encoded by the largest ORF, displayed strong similarity (40% identity) to the replication proteins from plasmids pAMbeta1, pIP501, and pSM19035, indicating that the pAW63 replicon belongs to the pAMbeta1 family of gram-positive theta-replicating plasmids. This was confirmed by the facts that no single-stranded DNA replication intermediates could be detected and that replication was found to be dependent on host-gene-encoded DNA polymerase I. An 85-bp region downstream of Rep63A was also shown to have strong similarity to the origins of replication of pAMbeta1 and pIP501, and it is suggested that this region contains the bona fide pAW63 ori. The protein encoded by the second large ORF, Rep63B (308 aa), was shown to display similarity to RepB (34% identity over 281 aa) and PrgP (32% identity over 310 aa), involved in copy control of the Enterococcus faecalis plasmids pAD1 and pCF10, respectively. No significant similarity to known proteins or DNA sequences could be detected for the two smallest ORFs. However, the location, size, hydrophilicity, and orientation of ORF6 (107 codons) were analogous to those features of the putative genes repC and prgO, which encode stability functions on plasmids pAD1 and pCF10, respectively. The cloned replicon of plasmid pAW63 was stably maintained in Bacillus subtilis and B. thuringiensis and displayed incompatibility with the native pAW63. Hybridization experiments using the cloned replicon as a probe showed that pAW63 has similarity to large plasmids from other B. thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki strains and to a strain of B. thuringiensis subsp. alesti.
AIMS: MicroRNAs play important roles in energy metabolism, insulin synthesis, insulin transport and the development of diabetes. This study aims to investigate the expression and effect of microRNA-130a in Uygur patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Peripheral blood and omental adipose tissues were collected from individuals with normal glucose tolerance and patients with T2DM. The microRNA expression profile of peripheral blood was established by microarray analysis. The differentially expressed microRNAs and possible target genes were identified by bioinformatics analysis. MicroRNA-130a mimics and inhibitors were transfected into 3T3-L1 preadipocytes. RESULTS: Our results showed that microRNA-130a expression level was significantly decreased in peripheral blood and omental adipose tissues of T2DM patients (P < 0.01). Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors gamma (PPARgamma) were predicted as target genes of microRNA-130a. This prediction was verified by the results that PPARgamma mRNA expression in omental adipose tissues of T2DM patients were significantly increased (P < 0.01). The glucose consumption level after microRNA-130a transfection was significantly decreased (P < 0.05). And, microRNA-130a mimics inhibited PPARgamma expression at both mRNA and protein level, further suggesting that PPARgamma is a target gene of microRNA-130a. Additionally, adiponectin, lipoprotein lipase, CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha, and the downstream genes of PPARgamma, were significantly decreased after microRNA-130a mimics transfection. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, microRNA-130a is decreased in Uygur patients with T2DM and it may play a role in T2DM through targeting PPARgamma.
The propagation and titration of viruses are key virological techniques. Unlike other flaviviruses, such as the dengue viruses, West Nile virus (WNV) grows and plaques very efficiently on Vero cells, usually inducing strong cytopathic effect (CPE) and forming clear plaques. Here, we outline the steps for propagating WNV from culture supernatant stocks and homogenized organ/mosquito samples, as well as for determining virus titers in samples by serial-dilution plaque assay using neutral red or crystal violet stains.
BACKGROUND: Emphysema and fibrosis, typically the idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) form of usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP), can co-exist as combined pulmonary fibrosis emphysema (CPFE). It is unknown whether there is a pathobiologic basis for CPFE beyond the coexistence of fibrosis and emphysema. The aim of this study was to ascertain radiologic differences in severity of fibrosis and emphysema in smokers with IPF versus other forms of UIP. METHODS: Computed tomography thorax images were prospectively rescored in retrospectively identified smokers (minimum 5-pack-year history) with radiologic UIP (any etiology). Radiologic severity (emphysema/fibrosis/reticulation) was scored in consensus by two radiologists, blinded to clinical details, across 5 lung regional levels, and then correlated with clinical data. RESULTS: For the whole cohort (IPF, n=102; non-IPF UIP [mainly rheumatoid arthritis/asbestosis/scleroderma], n=30), IPF and non-IPF UIP smokers were similar regarding pack-year, age, gender, and lung function (P>.1). IPF smokers had greater whole lung fibrosis and reticulation scores (P<.04 in all cases). CPFE was present in n=61 (IPF, n=49; non-IPF UIP, n=12). Compared with smokers with non-IPF CPFE, smokers with IPF and emphysema (IPFE) were similar regarding confounders (P>.1). There were significantly greater regional reticulation severity (P=.009), cumulative emphysema severity (P=.04), and cumulative reticulation severity (P<.001) scores in IPFE versus non-IPF CPFE. CONCLUSIONS: When controlled for confounders, smokers with IPFE have worse radiologic CPFE than other smokers with non-IPF UIP and emphysema, suggesting an interactive synergy among IPF, emphysema, and smoking, with more extensive emphysema due to either inherent susceptibility and/or traction effects. IPFE should be considered separately from other CPFE in future work. It is currently unknown whether CPFE is a distinct pathobiologic entity; therefore, we identified subjects with radiologic UIP (any etiology) who had been similarly exposed to smoke, and asked whether there are differences in the extent/severity of radiologic fibrosis and/or emphysema in those with IPF versus individuals with non-IPF UIP. Although relevant confounders were similar, IPF smokers had greater whole lung fibrosis and reticulation scores than smokers with secondary forms of UIP, and in the CPFE subgroup, smokers with IPF/emphysema had worse radiologic CPFE findings than smokers with non-IPF UIP/emphysema. It is shown for the first time that relevant confounding variables do not explain the observed excess radiologic severity of emphysema and fibrosis in smokers with IPF compared with smokers with non-IPF UIP, lending support to the hypothesis that there is a pathobiologic mechanism or synergy involved in IPF with emphysema that is distinct from the mere co-existence of UIP and emphysematous processes.
Prolactin is an important regulator of multiple biological functions in vertebrates, and has been viewed as essential to ion uptake as well as reduction in ion and water permeability of osmoregulatory surfaces in freshwater and euryhaline fish. Prolactin-releasing peptide seems to stimulate prolactin expression in the pituitary and peripheral organs during freshwater adaptation. Growth hormone, a member of the same family of hormones as prolactin, promotes acclimation to seawater in several teleost fish, at least in part through the action of insulin-like growth factor I. In branchial epithelia, development and differentiation of the seawater-type chloride cell (and their underlying biochemistry) is regulated by GH, IGF-I, and cortisol, whereas the freshwater-type chloride cell is regulated by prolactin and cortisol. In the epithelia of gastrointestinal tract, prolactin induces cell proliferation during freshwater adaptation, whereas cortisol stimulates both cell proliferation and apoptosis. We propose that control of salinity acclimation in teleosts by prolactin and growth hormone primarily involves regulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation (the latter including upregulation of specific ion transporters), and that there is an important interaction of these hormones with corticosteroids.
The National Programme for the Elimination of Lymphatic Filariasis is underway in the endemic districts of Tamil Nadu State, South India, since 2001. Annual mass drug administration (MDA) was carried out by the state health department to all eligible individuals. The impact of MDAs on transmission parameters was evaluated in 2 revenue blocks, viz, one with DEC alone and the other with a combination of albendazole. After 10 years with 6 annual MDAs, the transmission indices reached low levels in both treatment arms, but still persisted. However, the DEC alone arm showed higher transmission rates, compared to the DEC+ALB arm. Few villages which demonstrated persistent transmission need to be targeted with an additional control measure viz, vector control, to achieve LF elimination. It is evident from the 10 year period of the study that inclusion of albendazole along with DEC has significantly reduced the transmission indices to almost nil level, as compared to DEC alone.
This work reports the treatment of crystallized-fruit effluents, characterized by a very low biodegradability (BOD5/COD <0.19), through the application of a UV-A LED photo-Fenton process. Firstly, a Box-Behnken design of Response Surface Methodology was applied to achieve the optimal conditions for the UV-A LED photo-Fenton process, trying to maximize the efficiency by saving chemicals and time. Under the optimal conditions ([H2O2] = 5459 mg/L; [Fe(3+)] = 286 mg/L; time >180 min), a COD removal of 45, 64 and 74% was achieved after 360 min, using an irradiance of 23, 70 and 85 W/m(2) respectively. Then a combination of UV-A LED photo-Fenton with coagulation-flocculation-decantation attained a higher COD removal (80%), as well as almost total removal of turbidity (99%) and total suspended solids (95%). Subsequent biodegradability of treated effluents increased, allowing the application of a biological treatment step after the photochemical/CFD with 85 W/m(2).
Recent preclinical studies in rodent models of diabetes suggest that exogenous GLP-1R agonists and DPP-4 inhibitors have the ability to increase islet mass and preserve beta-cell function, by immediate reactivation of beta-cell glucose competence, as well as enhanced beta-cell proliferation and neogenesis and promotion of beta-cell survival. These effects have tremendous implication in the treatment of T2D because they directly address one of the basic defects in T2D, that is, beta-cell failure. In human diabetes, however, evidence that the GLP-1-based drugs alter the course of beta-cell function remains to be found. Several questions surrounding the risks and benefits of GLP-1-based therapy for the diabetic beta-cell mass are discussed in this review and require further investigation.
Adipocytes release the secretory protein adiponectin in a number of different higher-order complexes. Once synthesized and assembled in the secretory pathway of the adipocyte, these complexes circulate as biochemically distinct and stable entities with little evidence of interchange between the different forms that include a high-molecular-weight (HMW) species, a hexamer (low-molecular-weight form), and a trimeric form of the complexes. Here, we validate a high-resolution gel filtration method that reproducibly separates the three complexes in recombinant adiponectin and adiponectin from human and murine samples. We demonstrate that the HMW form is prominently reduced in male vs. female subjects and in obese, insulin-resistant vs. lean, insulin-sensitive individuals. A direct comparison of human and mouse adiponectin demonstrates that the trimer is generally more abundant in human serum. Furthermore, when the production of adiponectin is reduced, either by obesity or in mice carrying only a single functional allele of the adiponectin locus, then the amount of the HMW form is selectively reduced in circulation. The complex distribution of adiponectin can be regulated in several ways. Both mouse and human HMW adiponectin are very stable under basic conditions but are exquisitely labile under acidic conditions below pH 7. Murine and human adiponectin HMW forms also display differential susceptibility to the presence of calcium in the buffer. A mutant form of adiponectin unable to bind calcium is less susceptible to changes in calcium concentrations. However, the lack of calcium binding results in a destabilization of the structure. Disulfide bond formation (at position C39) is also important for complex formation. A mutant form of adiponectin lacking C39 prominently forms HMW and trimer but not the low-molecular-weight form. Injection of adiponectin with a fluorescent label reveals that over time, the various complexes do not interconvert in vivo. The stability of adiponectin complexes highlights that the production and secretion of these forms from fat cells has a major influence on the circulating levels of each complex.
BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is associated with dyslipidemia and increased risk for cardiovascular events; however, the use ofstatins in HIV-infected people is complicated by pharmacokinetic interactions and overlapping toxicities with antiretroviral medications. Policosanol is a dietary supplement derived from sugar cane that is widely used as a statin alternative in Latin America. PRIMARY STUDY OBJECTIVE: To collect feasibility data on sugar cane-derived policosanol to normalize dyslipidemic profiles in a sample of medically underserved HIV-infected people. METHODS/DESIGN: Randomized, controlled, double-blind clinical trial. SETTING: Two infectious disease outpatient clinics located in a Health Resources Service Administration-designated medically underserved neighborhood in Chicago, Illinois. PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-four clinically stable HIV-infected people (91% black) with at least one lipid abnormality that warranted dietary modifications and/or drug therapy. INTERVENTION: Participants received either 20 mg/day of policosanol or placebo for 12 weeks, followed by a 4-week washout and crossover to the other arm. PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Efficacy measures included the standard lipid panel (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-derived lipoprotein particle profiles. Safety measures included CD4+ T lymphocyte counts, plasma HIV ribonucleic acid levels, serum creatinine, and liver function tests. RESULTS: Policosanol supplementation was not associated with normalization of any dyslipidemic parameters as measured by the standard lipid panel or NMR spectroscopy-measured lipoprotein size or concentration. The supplement was well tolerated and was not associated with any changes in parameters of HIV disease progression. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings corroborate recent studies conducted outside Cuba that have failed to find any lipid modulatory effects for policosanol.
Cellular cardiomyoplasty is an attractive option for the treatment of severe heart failure. It is, however, still unclear and controversial which is the most promising cell source. Therefore, we investigated and examined the fate and functional impact of bone marrow (BM) cells and embryonic stem cell (ES cell)-derived cardiomyocytes after transplantation into the infarcted mouse heart. This proved particularly challenging for the ES cells, as their enrichment into cardiomyocytes and their long-term engraftment and tumorigenicity are still poorly understood. We generated transgenic ES cells expressing puromycin resistance and enhanced green fluorescent protein cassettes under control of a cardiac-specific promoter. Puromycin selection resulted in a highly purified (>99%) cardiomyocyte population, and the yield of cardiomyocytes increased 6-10-fold because of induction of proliferation on purification. Long-term engraftment (4-5 months) was observed when co-transplanting selected ES cell-derived cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts into the injured heart of syngeneic mice, and no teratoma formation was found (n = 60). Although transplantation of ES cell-derived cardiomyocytes improved heart function, BM cells had no positive effects. Furthermore, no contribution of BM cells to cardiac, endothelial, or smooth muscle neogenesis was detected. Hence, our results demonstrate that ES-based cell therapy is a promising approach for the treatment of impaired myocardial function and provides better results than BM-derived cells.
Myogenic differentiation in vitro has been usually viewed as being negatively controlled by serum mitogens. A depletion of critical serum components from medium has been considered to be essential for permanent withdrawal from the cell cycle and terminal differentiation of myoblasts. Removal of serum mitogens induces the expression of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs), whereas it inhibits that of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta in myoblasts. These responses of growth factors to medium conditioning seem to be well matched to their functions in proliferation/differentiation. In the present study, we showed that C(2)C(12) myoblasts differentiated actively, even in mitogen-rich medium, and that this medium offered an advantage over mitogen-poor medium in terms of increasing differentiation. Our attention focused on endogenous growth factors, as described above, especially IGFs in mitogen-rich medium. During differentiation, IGF-I and IGF-II mRNA levels increased, but bFGF and TGF-beta(1) mRNAs decreased. Differentiation was commensurable with IGF mRNA levels and suppressed by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides and neutralizing monoclonal antibodies against IGFs. These results suggest that an autocrine/paracrine loop of IGFs, bFGF, and TGF-beta(1) is active in proliferating and differentiating C(2)C(12) cells without a depletion of serum and that endogenous IGFs actively override the negative control of differentiation by serum mitogens.
Regulation of nucleoplasmic calcium (Ca(2+)) concentration may occur by the mobilization of perinuclear luminal Ca(2+)pools involving specific Ca(2+)pumps and channels of both inner and outer perinuclear membranes. To determine the role of perinuclear luminal Ca(2+), we examined freshly cultured 10 day-old embryonic chick ventricular cardiomyocytes. We obtained evidence suggesting the existence of the molecular machinery required for the bi-directional Ca(2+)fluxes using confocal imaging techniques. Embryonic cardiomyocytes were probed with antibodies specific for ryanodine-sensitive Ca(2+)channels (RyR2), sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)ATPase (SERCA2)-pumps, and fluorescent BODIPY derivatives of ryanodine and thapsigargin. Using immunocytochemistry techniques, confocal imaging showed the presence of RyR2 Ca(2+)channels and SERCA2-pumps highly localized to regions surrounding the nucleus, referable to the nuclear envelope. Results obtained from Fluo-3, AM loaded ionomycin-perforated embryonic cardiomyocytes demonstrated that gradual increases of extranuclear Ca(2+)from 100 to 1600 nM Ca(2+)was localized to the nucleus. SERCA2-pump inhibitors thapsigargin and cyclopiazonic acid showed a concentration-dependent inhibition of nuclear Ca(2+)loading. Furthermore, ryanodine demonstrated a biphasic concentration-dependence upon active nuclear Ca(2+)loading. The concomitant addition of thapsigargin or cyclopiazonic acid with ryanodine at inhibitory concentrations caused an significant increase in nuclear Ca(2+)loading at low concentrations of extranuclear added Ca(2+). Our results show that the perinuclear lumen in embryonic chick ventricular cardiomyocytes is capable of autonomously regulating nucleoplasmic Ca(2+)fluxes.
Samples of human cricopharyngeus muscles obtained at postmortem were assessed for fibre type composition and fibre size. Fibre type was determined using serial cryostat sections exposed to several histochemical reactions; narrow fibre diameter and fibre area were measured from photomicrographs using a digitiser interfaced to a microcomputer. Results were compared with values from samples of vastus lateralis obtained from the same subjects. Cricopharyngeus muscle, in comparison with vastus lateralis, contained significantly more oxidative fibres but fewer glycolytic fibres and significantly more Type I fibres but fewer Type IIB. Cricopharyngeal fibres were significantly smaller than the fibres in vastus lateralis and in neither muscle were fibre sizes normally distributed. In each muscle most Type I fibres were oxidative, and the ratio of oxidative: glycolytic fibres was similar for Type IIA and IIB fibres. The fibre type proportions and fibre sizes in cricopharyngeus did not vary significantly with age or between males and females. The composition of cricopharyngeus--mostly Type I oxidative fibres and few Type II glycolytic fibres--correlated well with the functions of sustained tonicity to prevent aerophagia and occasional forceful contraction during deglutition.
The duration of colonization with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus is not well defined. During 1564 admissions after a clinical culture or surveillance test positive for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, we retested patients for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus colonization. During the first year after the positive culture result was obtained, 48.8% of the patients (95% confidence interval, 45.8%-51.7%) remained colonized; at 4 years, 21.2% of the patients (95% confidence interval, 13.1%-31.4%) remained colonized.
OBJECTIVE: To assess health-related quality of life (HRQoL) parameters in patients who received radical cystectomy (RC) with ileal orthotopic neobladder (IONB) reconstruction and to identify clinic-pathologic predictors of HRQoL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: From January 2010 to December 2013, a multicenter, retrospective on 174 RC-IONB patients was carried out. All patients completed the following questionnaires: the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) generic (QLQ-C30) and bladder cancer-specific instruments (QLQ-BLM30) and the IONB-Patient Reported Outcome (IONB-PRO). Univariate and multivariate analyses were computed to identify clinic-pathologic predictors of HRQoL. RESULTS: Median age was 66 years (range, 31-83), and 91.4% of patients were men. Median follow-up period was 37 months (range, 3-247). The EORTC QLQ-C30 revealed that age >65 years, absence of urinary incontinence, and absence of peripheral vascular disease were independent predictors of deteriorated body image. A follow-up > 36 months and the presence of urinary incontinence were independent predictors of worsened urinary symptoms, whereas the absence of urinary incontinence was an independent predictor of a worsened body image according to EORTC QLQ-BLM30 results. A follow-up >36 months and the absence of urinary incontinence were independent predictors of better functioning in terms of relational life, emotional life, and fatigue as revealed by the IONB-PRO. CONCLUSION: Age, presence of urinary incontinence, length of follow-up, and comorbidity status may influence postoperative HRQoL and should all be taken into account when counseling RC-IONB patients.
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite. When searching for a new cell to invade, the parasites have to confront the stress of being exposed to the extracellular environment. The mechanisms by which T. gondii survives outside the host cells are poorly understood. In this work we show that extracellular parasites form mRNA aggregates with characteristics of stress granules. Intracellular tachyzoites or bradyzoites do not form mRNA granules. We tested different stimuli that trigger granule formation in vitro and discovered that a buffer that mimics the host cell cytosol ionic composition (high potassium) strongly induces granule formation, suggesting that the granules arise when the parasites come in contact with the host cell cytosol during egress. We examined the importance of granule formation for parasite viability and show that the parasite populations that are able to form granules have a growth advantage, increased invasion, and decreased apoptosis in the extracellular environment. Overall, granule formation improves the fitness of extracellular parasites and increases the efficiency of the lytic cycle.
There are nine major diagnostic categories of male sexual dysfunction in the DSM-IV. Psychotherapy outcome studies focusing on these problems are reviewed. Currently, there appears to be little evidence that effective psychological interventions exist for these problems. Reasons for this include numerous methodological problems of existing research, effect sizes that are not clearly clinically significant, lack of compelling follow-up data indicating durability of treatment gains, and lack of treatment manuals that allow replication. Also, some disorders have been ignored by researchers. Guidelines for sample selection and description, assessment and diagnosis, and research design are provided.
Cytokine response to viral infection can be of critical importance in the host defense against virus. Interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-2 have wide ranges of activities in host defense mechanisms. Therefore, these cytokine genes in the liver were investigated in a series of patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection using a reverse transcribed-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Total RNA was purified from liver biopsies, reverse transcribed to cDNA, amplified by specific primers, and the products were detected by agarose gel and slot blot hybridization. All samples from acute hepatitis (AH; n = 4) and chronic hepatitis patients (CH; n = 19) were positive for IFN-gamma at varying degrees. AH patients showed strong signals compared to CH patients, liver cirrhosis (LC; n = 12; 72% positive) patients, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC; n = 21; 19% positive) patients. IL-2 gene was undetectable in all patients tested. IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) was detectable in AH, CH and LC patients but not in HCC patients. We conclude that IFN-gamma has important roles in the cytokine network that indeed present in the liver of HCV patients while the presence of IL-2R gene may indicate that the signaling pathway for IL-2 is intact.
The 2001 anthrax attacks emphasized the need to develop outreach that would more effectively support racial/ethnic minority populations during a bioterrorism incident. Given the importance of antibiotic prophylaxis in a future anthrax attack, it should be a priority to better support racial/ethnic minorities in mass dispensing programs. To examine the needs and perspectives of racial/ethnic minorities, this study used a nationally representative poll of 1,852 adults, including 1,240 whites, 261 African Americans, and 282 Hispanics. The poll examined public reactions to a ''worst-case scenario'' in which cases of inhalation anthrax are discovered without an identified source and the entire population of a city or town is asked to receive antibiotic prophylaxis within 48 hours. Findings suggest willingness across all racial/ethnic groups to comply with recommendations to seek prophylaxis at dispensing sites. However, findings also indicate possible barriers for racial/ethnic minorities, including greater concern about pill safety and multiple attacks as well as lesser knowledge about inhalation anthrax. Across all racial/ethnic groups, roughly half would prefer to receive antibiotics at mass dispensing sites rather than through the US Postal Service. People in racial/ethnic minority groups were more likely to say this preference stems from a desire to speak with staff or to exchange medication formulation or type. Findings suggest the need for tailored outreach to racial/ethnic minorities through, for example, emphasis on key messages and enhanced understandability in communications, increased staff for answering questions in relevant dispensing sites, and long-term trust building with racial/ethnic minority communities.
The soluble methane monooxygenase (sMMO) complex from Methylococcus capsulatus (Bath) catalyses oxygen- and NAD(P)H-dependent oxygenation of methane, propene, and other substrates. Whole-complex sMMO oxygenase activity requires all three sMMO components: the hydroxylase, the reductase, and protein B. Also, in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, the hydroxylase alone catalyzes substrate oxygenation via the peroxide shunt reaction. We investigated the effect of amine cross-linking on hydroxylase activity to probe the role of a gross conformational change that occurs in the hydroxylase upon binding of the other protein components. The cross-linker inhibited hydroxylase activity in the whole complex, but this effect was due to covalent modification of primary amine groups rather than cross-linking. Covalent modification of arginine side-chains on the hydroxylase had a similar effect, but, most remarkably, neither form of modification affected the activity of the hydroxylase via the peroxide shunt reaction. It was shown that covalent modification of positively charged groups on the hydroxylase, which occurred at multiple sites, interfered with its physical and functional interactions with protein B and with the passage of electrons from the reductase. These results indicate that protein B and the reductase of the sMMO complex interact via positively charged groups on the surface of the hydroxylase to induce a conformational change that is necessary for delivery of electrons into the active site of the hydroxylase. Modification of positively charged groups on protein B had no effect on its function, consistent with the hypothesis that positively charged groups on the hydroxylase interact with negative charges on protein B. Thus, we have discovered a means of specifically inactivating the interactions between the sMMO complex while preserving the catalytic activity of the hydroxylase active site which provides a new method of studying intercomponent interactions within sMMO.
PURPOSE: To test the feasibility of velocity distribution analysis for identifying altered three-dimensional (3D) flow characteristics in patients with aortic disease based on 4D flow MRI volumetric analysis. METHODS: Forty patients with aortic (Ao) dilation (mid ascending aortic diameter MAA = 40 +/- 7 mm, age = 56 +/- 17 years, 11 females) underwent cardiovascular MRI. Four groups were retrospectively defined: mild Ao dilation (n = 10; MAA < 35 mm); moderate Ao dilation (n = 10; 35 < MAA < 45 mm); severe Ao dilation (n = 10; MAA > 45 mm); Ao dilation+aortic stenosis AS (n = 10; MAA > 35 mm and peak velocity > 2.5 m/s). The 3D PC-MR angiograms were computed and used to obtain a 3D segmentation of the aorta which was divided into four segments: root, ascending aorta, arch, descending aorta. Radial chart displays were used to visualize multiple parameters representing segmental changes in the 3D velocity distribution associated with aortic disease. RESULTS: Changes in the velocity field and geometry between cohorts resulted in distinct hemodynamic patterns for each aortic segment. Disease progression from mild to Ao dilation + AS resulted in significant differences (P < 0.05) in flow parameters across cohorts and increased radial chart size for root and ascending aorta segments by 146% and 99%, respectively. CONCLUSION: Volumetric 4D velocity distribution analysis has the potential to identify characteristic changes in regional blood flow patterns in patients with aortic disease.
BACKGROUND: The immune system In Huntington's disease (HD) is activated and may overreact to some therapies. RNA interference using siRNA lowers mutant huntingtin (mHTT) protein but could increase immune responses. OBJECTIVE: To examine the innate immune response following siRNA infusion into the striatum of wild-type (WT) and HD transgenic (YAC128) mice. METHODS: siRNAs (2'-O-methyl phosphorothioated) were infused unilaterally into striatum of four month-old WT and YAC128 mice for 28 days. Microglia number and morphology (resting (normal), activated, dystrophic), cytokine levels, and DARPP32-positive neurons were measured in striatum immediately or 14 days post-infusion. Controls included contralateral untreated striatum, and PBS and sham treated striata. RESULTS: The striata of untreated YAC128 mice had significantly fewer resting microglia and more dystrophic microglia than WT mice, but no difference from WT in the proportion of activated microglia or total number of microglia. siRNA infusion increased the total number of microglia in YAC128 mice compared to PBS treated and untreated striata and increased the proportion of activated microglia in WT and YAC128 mice compared to untreated striata and sham treated groups. Cytokine levels were low and siRNA infusion resulted in only modest changes in those levels. siRNA infusion did not change the number of DARPP32-positive neurons. CONCLUSION: Findings suggest that siRNA infusion may be a safe method for lowering mHTT levels in the striatum in young animals, since treatment does not produce a robust cytokine response or cause neurotoxicity. The potential long-term effects of a sustained increase in total and activated microglia after siRNA infusion in HD mice need to be explored.
Histatins (Hsts) are histidine-rich peptides exclusively present in the saliva of higher primates. In this study, we explored the effects of Hsts on cell-substrate and cell-cell adhesion. Histatin (Hst)-1 caused a significant (>2-fold) increase (EC50 = 1 microM) in the ability of human adherent cells to attach and spread, even in conditions that impaired cell spreading. Other tested Hsts did not stimulate cell spreading, indicating a specific effect of Hst1. The effect of Hst1 on cell-cell adhesion was investigated by using transepithelial resistance (TER) measurements in the human cell line Caco-2, a widely used model for the epithelial layer. We found that 10 microM Hst1 caused a 20% increase in TER compared to the negative control, indicating a function for Hst1 in intercellular cell adhesion and epithelial integrity. A role for Hst1 in both cell-substrate and cell-cell adhesion is highly conceivable, because these 2 modes of adhesion are closely related via shared components and connected signaling pathways.
To determine whether chronic inflammatory arthritis may respond to antibiotic therapy (implying a bacterial origin), we conducted a placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Sixty patients with inflammatory arthritis and antibody titers to Borrelia burgdorferi 1:64 or more were randomized to receive placebo (n = 20) or 2 g/d of ceftriaxone intravenously (n = 40) for 2 weeks. Two of 20 placebo- and 19 of 40 antibiotic-treated patients improved. At 1 month, the placebo-treated patients could elect to receive ceftriaxone. Altogether, 58 patients were treated with ceftriaxone and followed up for 13 to 24 months. Improvement was noted in 27 of the 58 antibiotic-treated patients. Patients with a wide diversity of inflammatory arthritis were studied. Response to ceftriaxone was seen in all groups, including 5 of 12 with rheumatoid arthritis, 5 of 8 with psoriatic arthritis, 3 of 5 with vasculitis, and 14 of 33 with less well-differentiated chronic inflammatory arthritis. In 16 of the 27 who responded to the antibiotic, the arthritis worsened 6 to 18 months after the initial response to ceftriaxone. Previous improvement of arthritis after oral antibiotic was a better predictor of response to ceftriaxone than either duration of disease or Lyme antibody titer. Side effects to ceftriaxone were frequent and included diarrhea (29/60) and acute allergic reactions (9/58). We conclude that some patients may have an occult bacterial infection underlying their chronic inflammatory arthritis, and may respond to antibiotic therapy. The response to ceftriaxone in patients with even weakly reactive Lyme titers encourages further prospective placebo-controlled studies of antibiotics in various subsets of chronic arthritis.
In this study, a high-throughput and high-sensitivity profiling system for beta-cryptoxanthin (betaCX) and beta-cryptoxanthin fatty acid ester (betaCXFA) was constructed by supercritical fluid chromatography (SFC) coupled with triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (QqQMS). betaCX and nine betaCXFAs were successfully separated within 20 min using a column packed with octadecylsilyl-bonded silica particles. The limit of detection was 540 fmol for the free form and 32-130 fmol for the esterified forms. These results demonstrate that both the throughput and the sensitivity of this SFC-QqQMS system are considerably higher than those of conventional methods. When this system was applied for the analysis of Citrus unshiu, betaCX and five betaCXFAs were directly detected with much simpler sample pre-preparation. The analysis of other citrus fruits indicated that the betaCXFA profiles varied with their breed variety. Furthermore, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to analyze total fatty acid profiles in C. unshiu, and the results revealed that the profiles of fatty acids located in betaCXFA were distinct. This is the first report on the analysis of betaCX and its fatty acid derivatives by SFC-QqQMS. The profiling system developed in this study will be a powerful tool for investigating xanthophyll fatty acid esters.
Among targeted delivery systems, platforms with nanosize dimensions, such as carbon nanomaterials (CNMs) and metal nanoparticles (NPs), have shown great potential in biomedical applications. They have received considerable interest in recent years, especially with respect to their potential utilization in the field of cancer diagnosis and therapy. The many functions of nanomaterials provide opportunities to use them as multimodal agents for theranostics, a combination of therapy and diagnosis. Carbon nanotubes and graphene are some of the most widely used CNMs because of their unique structural and physicochemical properties. Their high specific surface area allows for efficient drug loading and the possibility of functionalization with various bioactive molecules. In addition, CNMs are ideal platforms for the attachment of NPs. In the biomedical field, NPs have also shown tremendous potential for use in drug delivery, non-invasive tumour imaging and early detection due to their optical and magnetic properties. NP/CNM hybrids not only combine the unique properties of the NPs and CNMs but they also exhibit new properties arising from interactions between the two entities. In this review, the preparation of CNMs conjugated to different types of metal NPs and their applications in diagnosis, imaging, therapy and theranostics are presented.
A survey of 420 exposures of mammography was performed with the parameters recorded. Entrance skin air kerma (ESAK) was measured and the mean glandular dose (MGD) was calculated according to the Dance's formula. Correlation analysis showed that several factors could affect the MGD level. Mann-whitney test and Non-parametric ANOVA analyses were used to compare the MGD level grouped by view type and radiographic systems. No significant difference was found in MGD between the craniocaudal (CC) group and the mediolateral oblique (MLO) group. The MGD level was higher in the CR group than in the other two groups. MGD was positively correlated with the compressed breast thickness (CBT). MGD varied with the half value layer (HVL) and increased first then decreased. The mean MGD level in China is about 1.6 mGy and is lower than the guidance level in the International Basic Safety Standards (IBSS).
BACKGROUND: Temperament and character have been shown to be important factors in understanding psychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorder. Adults with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have repeatedly been shown to have a distinct temperament and character, but this has not been evaluated in relation to psychiatric comorbidity and ASD diagnostic stability. AIMS: To examine temperament and character in males that were diagnosed with ASD in childhood and followed prospectively over almost two decades. METHOD: Temperament and character were assessed in 40 adult males with a childhood diagnosis of ASD. Results were analysed by the stability of ASD diagnosis over time and current psychiatric comorbidity. RESULTS: Three distinct temperament and character profiles emerged from the data. Those no longer meeting criteria for ASD had high reward dependence while those with a stable ASD diagnosis and psychiatric comorbidity showed elevated harm avoidance and low self-directedness and cooperativeness. Finally, those with a stable ASD and no comorbidity showed low novelty seeking and somewhat elevated harm avoidance. CONCLUSIONS: Temperament and character are important factors correlated with long-term diagnostic stability and psychiatric comorbidity in males diagnosed with ASD in childhood. DECLARATION OF INTEREST: None. COPYRIGHT AND USAGE: (c) The Royal College of Psychiatrists 2016. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Non-Commercial, No Derivatives (CC BY-NC-ND) licence.
Cytochrome P450 CYP17A1 catalyzes a series of reactions that lie at the intersection of corticoid and androgen biosynthesis and thus occupies an essential role in steroid hormone metabolism. This multifunctional enzyme catalyzes the 17alpha-hydroxylation of Delta4- and Delta5-steroids progesterone and pregnenolone to form the corresponding 17alpha-hydroxy products through its hydroxylase activity, and a subsequent 17,20-carbon-carbon scission of pregnene-side chain produce the androgens androstenedione (AD) and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). While the former hydroxylation reaction is believed to proceed through a conventional "Compound I" rebound mechanism, it has been suggested that the latter carbon cleavage is initiated by an iron-peroxy intermediate. We report on the role of Thr306 in CYP17 catalysis. Thr306 is a member of the conserved acid/alcohol pair thought to be essential for the efficient delivery of protons required for hydroperoxoanion heterolysis and formation of Compound I in the cytochromes P450. Wild type and T306A CYP17A1 self-assembled in Nanodiscs were used to quantitate turnover and coupling efficiencies of CYP17's physiological Delta4- and Delta5-substrates. We observed that T306A co-incorporated in Nanodiscs with its redox partner cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase, coupled NADPH only by 0.9% and 0.7% compared to the wild type (97% and 22%) during the conversion of pregnenolone and progesterone, respectively, to the corresponding 17-OH products. Despite increased oxidation of pyridine nucleotide, hydroxylase activity was drastically diminished in the T306A mutant, suggesting a high degree of uncoupling in which reducing equivalents and protons are funneled into non-productive pathways. This is similar to previous work with other P450 catalyzed hydroxylation. However, catalysis of carbon-carbon bond scission by the T306A mutant was largely unimpeded by disruption of the CYP17A1 acid-alcohol pair. The unique response of CYP17A1 lyase activity to mutation of Thr306 is consistent with a reactive intermediate formed independently of proton delivery in the active site, and supports involvement of a nucleophilic peroxo-anion rather than the traditional Compound I in catalysis.
Extracorporeal immunoadsorption (ECI) therapy using Staphylococcal Protein A columns has proven effective for removing autoantibodies and circulating immune complexes from patients selectively, providing a promising treatment for autoimmune diseases. However, due to the drawbacks of Protein A in terms of cost and stability, the widespread use of Protein A based ECI is limited. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of 4-mercaptoethylpyridine (MEP, MW 139 Da), a simple and inexpensive synthetic compound, as an alternative to Protein A for autoantibody removal therapy. MEP-based adsorbents were prepared by coupling MEP to Sepharose CL-6B. We found that ligand density was an adjustable parameter for the synthesis of adsorbents aiming at different pathogenic factors, depending on the class of antibody. MEP-Sepharose with a ligand density of 98.8 micromol/ml could remove 80% of the anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies from human serum, whereas a ligand density of 64.5 micromol/ml was enough to remove 96% of the rheumatoid factor (RF) in the serum. Moreover, MEP-based adsorbents showed a lower degree of individual differences compared to Protein A-Sepharose. RF removal of 90% was achieved for all 12 serum samples from different individuals. Among the 14 serum samples derived from systemic lupus erythematosus patients, 11 samples had markedly reduced antinuclear antibody titers. In addition, non-specific adsorption of plasma components to MEP-Sepharose was limited, and the binding capacity of the absorbent for IgG was still about 20 mg/ml of gel after 10 cycles. The results indicated that MEP-based adsorbent could offer a new type of adsorber for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease which affects the healing ability of the pulp and periodontium. The aim of the present study was to assess the histopathologic response of dental pulp to pulp capping using MTA or CEM cement in diabetic rats. Thirty two Wistar male rats aged between 8 and 10 weeks (weight: 200-250g) were divided into two groups of diabetic (n=16) and healthy (n=16) animals and then subdivided into MTA and CEM subgroups. In each group, 10 MTA treated, 10 CEM treated and 12 intact (without any intervention) teeth were analyzed. Intact teeth were considered as a baseline inflammation control. Then, class I cavity was made in the maxillary first molars teeth with pinpoint pulpal exposure. Either MTA or CEM cement was then placed over exposed pulp as pulp capping agent and the cavities were restored using resin- modified glass ionomer cement. Both teeth of rats in subgroups remained intact without any intervention. After four weeks, the rats were sacrificed and the teeth were subjected to histological evaluation in terms of inflammation intensity, dentin bridge formation and dentin bridge continuity. The CEM cement treated diabetic rats exhibited a significant higher inflammatory response when compared to healthy control group (P=0.004) whereas, MTA treated diabetic rats did not exhibit a significant higher inflammatory response in comparison to healthy controls. There was no significant difference between MTA and CEM cement in the induction of dentin bridge formation in diabetic and healthy controls. This preliminary study suggests that MTA is a superior dental material than CEM cement for pulp therapy in subjects with diabetes.
NMDA receptors are heteromeric glutamate-gated channels composed of GluN1 and GluN2 subunits. Receptor isoforms that differ in their GluN2-subunit type (A-D) are expressed differentially throughout the central nervous system and have distinct kinetic properties in recombinant systems. How specific receptor isoforms contribute to the functions generally attributed to NMDA receptors remains unknown, due in part to the incomplete functional characterization of individual receptor types and unclear molecular composition of native receptors. We examined the stationary gating kinetics of individual rat recombinant GluN1/GluN2B receptors in cell-attached patches of transiently transfected HEK293 cells and used kinetic analyses and modeling to describe the full range of this receptor's gating behaviors. We found that, like GluN1/GluN2A receptors, GluN1/GluN2B receptors have three gating modes that are distinguishable by their mean open durations. However, for GluN1/GluN2B receptors, the modes also differed markedly in their mean closed durations and thus generated a broader range of open probabilities. We also found that regardless of gating mode, glutamate dissociation occurred approximately 4-fold more slowly (k(-) = 15 s(-1)) compared to that observed in GluN1/GluN2A receptors. On the basis of these results, we suggest that slow glutamate dissociation and modal gating underlie the long heterogeneous activations of GluN1/GluN2B receptors.
The expression of Prostate Specific-Membrane Antigen (PSMA) increases in high-grade prostate carcinoma envisaging a role in growth and progression. We show here that clustering PSMA at LNCaP or PC3-PSMA cell membrane activates AKT and MAPK pathways thus promoting proliferation and survival. PSMA activity was dependent on the assembly of a macromolecular complex including filamin A, beta1 integrin, p130CAS, c-Src and EGFR. Within this complex beta1 integrin became activated thereby inducing a c-Src-dependent EGFR phosphorylation at Y1086 and Y1173 EGF-independent residues. Silencing or blocking experiments with drugs demonstrated that all the complex components were required for full PSMA-dependent promotion of cell growth and/or survival in 3D culture, but that p130CAS and EGFR exerted a major role. All PSMA complex components were found assembled in multiple samples of two high-grade prostate carcinomas and associated with EGFR phosphorylation at Y1086. The expression of p130CAS and pEGFRY1086 was thus analysed by tissue micro array in 16 castration-resistant prostate carcinomas selected from 309 carcinomas and stratified from GS 3+4 to GS 5+5. Patients with Gleason Score </=5 resulted negative whereas those with GS>/=5 expressed p130CAS and pEGFRY1086 in 75% and 60% of the cases, respectively.Collectively, our results demonstrate for the first time that PSMA recruits a functionally active complex which is present in high-grade patients. In addition, two components of this complex, p130CAS and the novel pEGFRY1086, correlate with progression in castration-resistant patients and could be therefore useful in therapeutic or surveillance strategies of these patients.
The dead-end elimination (DEE) theorems are powerful tools for the combinatorial optimization of protein side-chain placement in protein design and homology modeling. In order to reach their full potential, the theorems must be extended to handle very hard problems. We present a suite of new algorithms within the DEE paradigm that significantly extend its range of convergence and reduce run time. As a demonstration, we show that a total protein design problem of 10(115) combinations, a hydrophobic core design problem of 10(244) combinations, and a side-chain placement problem of 10(1044) combinations are solved in less than two weeks, a day and a half, and an hour of CPU time, respectively. This extends the range of the method by approximately 53, 144 and 851 log-units, respectively, using modest computational resources. Small to average-sized protein domains can now be designed automatically, and side-chain placement calculations can be solved for nearly all sizes of proteins and protein complexes in the growing field of structural genomics.
PURPOSE: T-box transcription factor 21 (T-bet) is a key lineage-defining transcription factor. The purpose of this study was to verify the relationship between expression in primary tumors and prognosis of breast cancer. METHODS: T-protein expression was immunohistochemically detected on surgically-obtained tumor samples of 130 (stage I-III) invasive breast carcinomas from Chinese subjects, who were followed up for a mean time of 112 months. RESULTS: T-bet was expressed in the nuclei and cytoplasm of both tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. In LOG-RANK analysis, higher density of interstitial T-bet+ interstitial lymphocytes was related with longer distant disease-free survival (DDFS) (P = 0.047); higher tumor nuclei T-bet expression was related with shorter DFS (P = 0.021) and DDFS (P = 0.026). Cox multivariate analysis showed that density of interstitial T-bet+ interstitial lymphocytes was an independent positive prognostic factor for DFS (HR = 0.474, P = 0.051) and DDFS (HR = 0.414, P = 0.030); tumor nuclei CTLA-4 expression was an independent adverse prognostic factor for DFS (HR = 3.007, P = 0.003), DDFS (HR = 2.931, P = 0.005) and OS (HR = 2.352, P = 0.029). CONCLUSIONS: This study found that, high tumor nuclei T-bet expression in primary tumors of breast cancer was correlated with poor prognosis and high density of T-bet+ interstitial lymphocytes in primary tumors of breast cancer were correlated with favorable prognosis.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Wide variation in outcome methodology can make the interpretation of patient outcomes confusing and the comparison of the results of different studies almost impossible. It is important to objectively measure and record the severity of atopic dermatitis (AD) for routine clinical practice and research. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether morphologic study of skin surface contours might be helpful to objectively quantify the severity of AD. METHODS: Thirty atopic patients (12 females, 18 males) participated in this study. Moisturizer was applied twice daily for 2 weeks. Bioengineering methods such as D-Squame, corneometer, evaporimeter, and spectrophotometer were measured at the start of the study and after 1 week and 2 weeks. In addition, we assessed moisturizer effects after 3 h of moisturizer application.The stereoimage optical topometer (SOT) based on a new concept of stereoimage was applied for this study. We compared SOT, other bioengineering methods, and the severity scoring of atopic dermatitis (SCORAD) index. RESULTS: After 3 h of application with moisturizer, the results measured by SOT, conventional optical profilometer (COP), D-Squame, and corneometer showed significant differences (P<0.05). After 1 and 2 weeks, there were significant changes in the results measured by SOT, COP, D-Squame, corneometer, spectrophotometer, and SCORAD index. We observed a significant correlation between bioengineering methods and the SCORAD index (P<0.05). CONCLUSION: These data indicate that morphologic study of skin surface contours are useful in evaluating of AD severity. If we would combine methods to evaluate the physiologic changes and those such as SOT to measure the morphological changes of skin surface, we could evaluate more objectively and quantitatively the severity of AD.
The purpose of the study was to investigate whether the human and economic investment of resources in the further training of nursing and nursing assistants is justified. The study focused in particular on the transfer of knowledge from training course to working practice. It was carried out as a case study in Ringkobing County, Denmark, during 1993/94. The population consisted of 49 nurses and 49 nursing assistants. The study showed that the participants took a keen interest in the courses. The learning process was found relevant by the nurses, but not by the nursing assistants. Neither group found that their expectations of getting more knowledge were satisfied. With respect to job-behaviour, the study confirmed the hypothesis that the practising of the content of the course will depend on the support and interest of the head of the department towards a goal-oriented development of competence and structure. If such support and interest is lacking, the course-participant will only change her own working practices, independent of the organizational structure.
Recently, the placenta mesotherapy has been widely used to treat menopause. Placenta contains amino acids, peptides, minerals, and estrogen. Here, we investigated the estrogen-like osteoprotective effects of glycine (a main ingredient of placenta) in in vitro and in vivo models of menopause. We assessed the effect of glycine on MG-63 osteoblast cell line, MCF-7 estrogen-dependent cell line, and ovariectomized (OVX) mice. Glycine significantly increased the MG-63 cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Activity of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and phosphorylation of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase were increased by glycine in MG-63 cells. Glycine also increased the BrdU-incorporation and Ki-67 mRNA expression in MCF-7 cells. Glycine induced the up-regulation of estrogen receptor-beta mRNA expression and estrogen-response element-luciferase activity in MG-63 and MCF-7 cells. In OVX mice, glycine was administered orally at a daily dose of 10 mg/kg per day for 8 weeks. Glycine resulted in the greatest decrease in weight gain caused by ovariectomy. Meanwhile, vaginal weight reduced by ovariectomy was increased by glycine. Glycine significantly increased the ALP activity in OVX mice. MicroCT-analysis showed that glycine significantly enhanced bone mineral density, trabecular number, and connectivity density in OVX mice. Moreover, glycine significantly increased the serum 17beta-estradiol levels reduced by ovariectomy. Glycine has an estrogen-like osteoprotective effect in menopause models. Therefore, we suggest that glycine may be useful for the treatment of menopause.
Ribozymes that are sensitive to cyclic nucleotides have been selected in vitro. Remarkably, the cGMP-dependent ribozymes are specifically activated by a factor of 5,000 - the largest allosteric ribozyme activation by a small molecule seen to date.
Most antibacterial peptides exhibit low therapeutic indices in vivo. Peptide A3-APO was shown to exhibit high potency against Escherichia coli bacteremia when added intraperitoneally. To extend the studies to systemic infections against multidrug-resistant organisms, we studied the efficacy of A3-APO in mouse models of carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii infection. When administered either intravenously at 2.5 mg/kg or intramuscularly (im) at 5 mg/kg twice or three times to mice infected with a carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii strain, peptide A3-APO reduced the bacterial counts by at least two log10 units and increased the survival rate compared with untreated animals or mice treated with 40 mg/kg imipenem. Unlike after intraperitoneal or intravenous administration, A3-APO did not show toxic effects at 60 mg/kg dose im.
Described in this unit are experimental and computational methods to detect and classify drug interactions. In most cases, this relates to two drugs or compounds with overtly similar effects, e.g., two analgesics or two anti-hypertensives. From the dose-response data of the individual drugs, it is possible to generate a curve, the isobole, which defines all dose combinations that are expected to yield a specified effect. The theory underlying the isobole involves the calculation of doses of drug A that are effectively equivalent to doses of drug B with that equivalence determining whether the isobole is linear or nonlinear. In either case, the isobole allows for a comparison with actual combination effects making it possible to determine whether the interaction is synergistic, additive, or sub-additive. Actual as well as illustrative data are employed to demonstrate experimental design and data analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the expression and distribution of Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) mRNA and its protein in the facial motoneuron in order to clarify its functional state after long-term facial denervation. METHOD: The facial nerves on the right sides were cut in dogs. Brain stems were removed and sectioned, and sections were separately used for histochemistry, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization of CNTF. The facial motoneurons were identified by Nissl staining. The count and intense of positive reactive motoneurons were measured by computer image processing system. RESULT: Transection of the facial nerve led to a very marked reduce in the count and intense of CNTF mRNA positive reactive motoneurons, and reached the minimal levels at week 3. CNTF immunoreactivity increased rapidly and reached the maximal levels at also week 3. At week 4, a significant increase in CNTF mRNA expression and decrease in CNTF immunoreactivity were observed. At week 6, both CNTF mRNA and its protein expression were significantly less than those of unlesioned contralateral sides. Although a little difference between at week 12 and at 32 was observed, the motoneurons were generally stable in the expression level of CNTF mRNA and its protein, and in the size and count after 12 weeks, with 78%, 84.4%, 80.9% and 83.7% respectively as compared with the unlesioned contralateral facial motoneurons. CONCLUSION: The results indicated that although degenerating changes occurred in the facial motoneurons after long-term facial denervation, the ciliary neurotrophic factors activity of the lesioned motoneurons was still maintained at a certain level.
A point mutation (E115K) resulting in slower growth of Escherichia coli DH5alpha and XL1-Blue in minimal media was identified in the purB gene, coding for adenylosuccinate lyase (ASL), through complementation with an E. coli K-12 genomic library and serial subcultures. Chromosomal modification reversing the mutation to the wild type restored growth phenotypes in minimal media.
BIK (BCL2-interacting killer) is a pro-apoptotic BH3 (BCL2 homology domain 3)-only protein and a member of the BCL2 protein family. It was proposed recently that BIK abundance is controlled by ERK1/2 (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 1/2)-catalysed phosphorylation, which targets the protein for proteasome-dependent destruction. In the present study, we examined ERK1/2-dependent regulation of BIK, drawing comparisons with BIM(EL) (BCL2-interacting mediator of cell death; extra long), a well-known target of ERK1/2. In many ERK1/2-dependent tumour cell lines, inhibition of BRAF(V600E) (v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homologue B1, V600E mutation) or MEK1/2 (mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase 1/2) had very little effect on BIK expression, whereas BIM(EL) was strongly up-regulated. In some cell lines we observed a modest increase in BIK expression; however, this was not apparent until ~16 h or later, whereas BIM(EL) expression increased rapidly within a few hours. Although BIK was degraded by the proteasome, we found no evidence that this was regulated by ERK1/2 signalling. Rather, the delayed increase in BIK expression was prevented by actinomycin D, and was accompanied by increases in BIK mRNA. Finally, the delayed increase in BIK expression following ERK1/2 inhibition was phenocopied by a highly selective CDK4/6 (cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6) inhibitor, which caused a strong G(1) cell-cycle arrest without inhibiting ERK1/2 signalling. In contrast, BIM(EL) expression was induced by ERK1/2 inhibition, but not by CDK4/6 inhibition. We conclude that BIK expression is not subject to direct regulation by the ERK1/2 pathway; rather, we propose that BIK expression is cell-cycle-dependent and increases as a consequence of the G(1) cell-cycle arrest which results from inhibition of ERK1/2 signalling.
Singapore grouper iridovirus (SGIV) is a major pathogen that causes heavy economic losses to the grouper aquaculture industry in China and Southeast Asian countries. In the present study, a viral envelope protein, VP39, encoded by SGIV ORF39L, was identified and characterized. SGIV ORF39L was found in all sequenced iridoviruses and is now considered to be a core gene of the family Iridoviridae. ORF39L was classified as a late gene during in vitro infection using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, western blotting, and a drug inhibition analysis. An indirect immunofluorescence assay revealed that the VP39 protein was confined to the cytoplasm, especially at viral assembly sites. Western blot and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight tandem mass spectrometry analyses suggested that VP39 is an envelope protein. Immunogold electron microscopy further confirmed that VP39 is a viral envelope protein. Furthermore, a mouse anti-VP39 polyclonal antibody exhibited SGIV-neutralizing activity in vitro, suggesting that VP39 is involved in SGIV infection. Taken together, the current data suggest that VP39 represents a conserved envelope protein of iridoviruses that contributes to viral infection.
The present study investigated the ameliorating effects of p-hydroxybenzyl alcohol (HBA), an active phenolic ingredient of Gastrodia elata, on cycloheximide (CXM)-induced impairment of passive avoidance response and clarified the role of adrenal glands on the effect of HBA in rats. An adrenalectomy (ADX) caused the memory deficit from 1 to 3 days after surgery. Administration of corticosterone (CORT) plus glucose completely recovered the memory deficit caused by ADX, and this effect was better than that of glucose or CORT alone. HBA ameliorated the memory deficit induced by CXM in sham and ADX rats, but ADX partially blocked it. Furthermore, plasma glucose, epinephrine and adrenal steroid levels of ADX rats significantly decreased. Sham rats who received HBA had an increase in plasma glucose and adrenal steroid levels. Therefore, we suggest that the reversal of CXM-induced memory deficit by HBA was partially dependent on adrenal glands through the increase of the levels of plasma adrenal steroids.
BACKGROUND: Prior evidence suggests a link between inflammation and hypertension. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been implicated in animal studies to play an important role in angiotensin II (ANGII)-mediated hypertension. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship of IL-6 and renin-angiotensin system (RAS) activity in human hypertension. METHODS: Data from 385 hypertensives and 196 normotensives are included in this report. Blood pressure and laboratory evaluation were performed on liberal and low sodium diets. IL-6 response to an ANGII infusion was evaluated to assess the effect of acute RAS activation. RESULTS: Hypertensives had higher baseline IL-6 and C-reactive protein (CRP) compared with normotensives on both diets. IL-6 increased in response to ANGII in hypertensives and normotensives (28% in hypertensives, 31% in normotensives, P </= 0.001 for change from baseline). In the setting of RAS activation by a low salt diet, multivariate regression analysis adjusted for age, body mass index (BMI), gender, race, and hypertension status demonstrated an independent positive association of plasma renin activity (PRA) with CRP (beta = 0.199, P < 0.001). There was no significant difference in IL-6 or CRP levels between liberal and low sodium diets. CONCLUSION: These findings confirm an association between hypertension and inflammation and provide human data supporting previous evidence from animal studies that IL-6 plays a role in ANGII-mediated hypertension. Notably, compared to levels on a liberal sodium diet, neither IL-6 nor CRP were higher with activation of the RAS by a low salt diet indicating that a low sodium diet is not inflammatory despite increased RAS activity.
Several studies have revealed that melatonin affects the insulin secretion via MT(1) and MT(2) receptor isoforms. Owing to the lack of selective MT(1) receptor antagonists, we used RNA interference technology to generate an MT(1) knockdown in a clonal beta-cell line to evaluate whether melatonin modulates insulin secretion specifically via the MT(1) receptor. Incubation experiments were carried out, and the insulin concentration in supernatants was measured using a radioimmunoassay. Furthermore, the intracellular cAMP was determined using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Real-time RT-PCR indicated that MT(1) knockdown resulted in a significant increase in the rIns1 mRNA and a significantly elevated basal insulin secretion of INS-1 cells. Incubation with melatonin decreased the amount of glucagon-like peptide 1 or inhibited the glucagon-stimulated insulin release of INS-1 cells, while, in MT(1) -knockdown cells, no melatonin-induced reduction in insulin secretion could be found. No decrease in 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine-stimulated intracellular cAMP in rMT(1) -knockdown cells was detectable after treatment with melatonin either, and immunocytochemistry proved that MT(1) knockdown abolished phosphorylation of cAMP-response-element-binding protein. In contrast to the INS-1 cells, preincubation with melatonin did not sensitize the insulin secretion of rMT(1) -knockdown cells. We also monitored insulin secretion from isolated islets of wild-type and melatonin-receptor knockout mice ex vivo. In islets of wild-type mice, melatonin treatment resulted in a decrease in insulin release, whereas melatonin treatment of islets from MT(1) knockout and MT(1/2) double-knockout mice did not show a significant effect. The data indicate that melatonin inhibits insulin secretion, primarily via the MT(1) receptor in rat INS-1 cells and isolated mouse islets.
After hypoxia, cells may die immediately or have a protracted course, living or dying depending on an incompletely understood set of cell autonomous and nonautonomous factors. In stroke, for example, some neurons are thought to die from direct hypoxic injury by cell autonomous primary mechanisms, whereas other so called innocent bystander neurons die from factors released from the primarily injured cells. A major limitation in identifying these factors is the inability of current in vivo models to selectively target a set of cells for hypoxic injury so that the primarily injured cells and the innocent bystanders are clearly delineated. In order to develop such a model, we generated transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans strains where 2-3% of somatic cells were made selectively sensitive to hypoxia. This was accomplished by cell type-specific wild-type rescue in either pharyngeal myocytes or GABAergic neurons of a hypoxia resistance-producing translation factor mutation. Surprisingly, hypoxic targeting of these relatively small subsets of non-essential cells produced widespread innocent bystander cell injury, behavioral dysfunction and eventual organismal death. The hypoxic injury phenotypes of the myocyte or neuron sensitized strains were virtually identical. Using this model, we show that the C. elegans insulin receptor/FOXO transcription factor pathway improves survival when activated only after hypoxic injury and blocks innocent bystander death.
Deep-sea hydrothermal vent species are widely dispersed among habitat islands found along the global mid-ocean ridge system. We examine factors that affect population structure, gene flow and isolation in vent-endemic mussels of the genus Bathymodiolus from the eastern Pacific Ocean. Mussels were sampled from localities including the Galapagos Rift (GAR, 0 degrees 48' N; 86 degrees 10' W) and the East Pacific Rise (EPR, 13 degrees N to 32 degrees S latitude) across a maximum distance of 4900 km. The sampled range crossed a series of topographical features that interrupt linear aspects of the ridge system, and it encompassed regions of strong cross-axis currents that could impede along-axis dispersal of mussel larvae. Examinations of mitochondrial DNA sequences and allozyme variation revealed significant barriers to gene flow along the ridge axis. All populations from the GAR and EPR from 13 degrees N to 11 degrees S were homogeneous genetically and appeared to experience unimpeded high levels of interpopulational gene flow. In contrast, mussels from north and south of the Easter Microplate were highly divergent (4.4%), possibly comprising sister-species that diverged after formation of the microplate approximately 4.5 Ma. Strong cross-axis currents associated with inflated bathymetry of the microplate region may reinforce isolation across this region.
Multiple lines of evidence suggest that CD4+ lymphocytes initiate autoimmune responses against myelin antigens in multiple sclerosis (MS). The increased frequency of activated myelin-specific cells in MS patients indicates that the activation of autoreactive cells represents a central event in the pathogenesis of the disease. We identified a CD4+ subpopulation that is characterized phenotypically by the persistent absence of surface CD28 expression and functionally by CD28-independent activation and Th1 cytokine secretion. Owing to their costimulation-independent activation and their expression of a full agonist signaling activation pattern, CD4+CD28- cells have the potential to initiate autoimmune responses in the central nervous system, a compartment devoid of professional antigen presenting cells. Long-term memory CD4+CD28- cells produce high amounts of IFN-gamma and maximally upregulate IFN-gamma and IL-12Rbeta2 chain expression in the absence of costimulation. They exhibit prominent growth characteristics and increased survival after activation, likely related to their persistent lack of CTLA-4 surface expression. The CD4+CD28- population is expanded in a subgroup of MS patients. Myelin basic protein-specific cells detected in this cell subset may play an important role in the inflammatory response within the central nervous system.
Activation of liver X receptors (LXRs) can improve glucose tolerance in insulin-independent diabetes, however, whether similar effects can be achieved in insulin-dependent diabetes remains unclear. Here, we evaluated the anti-diabetic activity of T0901317, a potent agonist of LXRs, in diabetic mice induced by streptozotocin, and our data demonstrate that T0901317 is most effective when combined with cold treatment of animals. Treatment with T0901317 improved glucose tolerance of diabetic mice, which was associated with repressed expression of key genes involved in hepatic gluconeogenesis such as Pepck and G6p. Combined treatment by T0901317 and cold exposure reduced transcription of gluconeogenic genes to similar levels. Intriguingly, combined treatment greatly increased expression of Ucp1, Cidea, Dio2, and Elvol3 predominantly in the inguinal white adipose tissue, consequently leading to browning of this fat pad, and resulting in further improvement of glucose tolerance which was associated with increased protein levels of UCP1 and GLUT4. Collectively, these results suggest that browning of white adipose tissue via cold exposure in combination with activation of liver X receptors is an alternative and effective strategy to manage insulin-dependent diabetes.
BACKGROUND: There is an urgent need for an improved tuberculosis vaccine. The lack of a validated correlate of protection slows progress in achieving this goal. A human mycobacterial challenge model, using bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) as a surrogate for a Mycobacterium tuberculosis challenge, would facilitate vaccine selection for field efficacy testing. Optimization of this model is required. METHODS: Healthy BCG-naive adults were assigned to receive intradermal standard-dose BCG SSI (group A), standard-dose BCG TICE (group B), high-dose BCG SSI (group C), and high-dose BCG TICE (group D). Two weeks after BCG challenge, skin biopsy of the challenge site was performed. BCG mycobacterial load was quantified by solid culture and quantitative polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: BCG was well tolerated, and reactogenicity was similar between groups, regardless of strain and dose. There was significantly greater recovery of BCG from the high-dose challenge groups, compared with standard-dose challenge. BCG strain did not significantly affect BCG recovery. CONCLUSIONS: BCG challenge dose affects sensitivity of this model. We have selected high-dose BCG SSI to take forward in future challenge studies. Assessment of candidate tuberculosis vaccine effectiveness with this optimized model could contribute to vaccine selection for efficacy trials. CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION: NCT02088892.
Bacterial LPS stimulation of murine macrophages leads to increased tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of the 42- and 44-kDa mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) and the activation of stress-activated protein kinases (SAPK)/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38, related to the high osmolarity glycerol protein kinase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (HOG1). LPS caused a rapid increase (10 min) in phosphotransferase activity toward myelin basic protein (MBP), a polypeptide that encompassed the first 169 residues of c-Jun fused to gluthathione S-transferase (GST-c-Jun (1-169)) and 27-kDa heat shock protein (hsp27). MonoQ fractionation of cell extracts resolved phosphotransferase activity peaks toward MBP, GST-c-Jun (1-169), and hsp27, which contained MAPK, SAPK/JNK, and MAPKAPK2, respectively, as indicated by immunoblotting data. In RAW 264.7 macrophages, LPS stimulation of MAPKAPK2, a substrate of p38 HOG1 and MAPK, appeared to occur predominantly via p38 HOG1 and not the MAPK. PMA, which activated the MAPK as potently as LPS, did not strongly activate MAPKAPK2, as assessed by hsp27 phosphorylation. Consistent with p38 HOG1-mediating LPS activation of MAPKAPK2, treatment with LPS, but not PMA, increased the tyrosine phosphorylation of p38 HOG1, a modification known to elevate the enzymatic capacity of this kinase. In LPS-treated cells, the activity of SAPK/JNK was increased 5- to 10-fold, as measured by precipitating SAPK/JNK with Abs or immobilized GST-c-Jun and performing an in vitro kinase assay. In addition, the kinases thought to be upstream of SAPK/JNK, SAPK/ERK kinase 1 (SEK1), and MAPK/ERK kinase kinase 1 (MEKK1), were activated following LPS, but not PMA, exposure (5-fold and 2.5-fold, respectively.
BACKGROUND: Studies of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from wild-type mice or rats to alpha1,3-galactosyltransferase (GalT) knockout mice have demonstrated that induction of mixed chimerism tolerizes not only T cells, but also natural antibody-producing B cells, even across xenogeneic barriers. Given that rodent cells express lower levels of the alphaGal epitope than the more clinically relevant porcine species, the consequences of exposure to cells expressing high levels of alphaGal on the ability to induce B-cell tolerance are unknown. METHODS: The effects on chimerism and anti-alphaGal B-cell tolerance of an i.p. injection of 10(9) porcine RBC were evaluated in GalT knockout mice receiving wild-type allogeneic BMT after non-myeloablative conditioning with T-cell depleting monoclonal antibodies, thymic irradiation, and low-dose total body irradiation. RESULTS: Achievement of mixed chimerism and tolerance of anti-alphaGal-producing B cells was not affected by exposure to high-density alphaGal at the time of BMT. The absence of induced anti-alphaGal or anti-pig antibody responses in conditioned control mice suggested that the B-cell xeno-response to pig is T-cell-dependent. CONCLUSION: High alphaGal density on pig cells might not preclude the ability to achieve tolerance of pre-existing alphaGal-reactive human B cells via induction of mixed chimerism. This strategy has the potential to induce B-cell tolerance to non-alphaGal epitopes, against which natural antibodies have been found in the sera of healthy humans.
The cellular basis of the in vitro and in vivo T cell responses to Staphylococcus enterotoxin B (SEB) has been investigated. The proliferation and cytotoxicity of V beta 8.1,2+,CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were observed in in vitro response to SEB. In primary cytotoxicity assays, CD4+ T cells from control spleens were more active than their CD8+ counterparts, however, in cells derived from SEB-primed mice, CD8+ T cells were dominant in SEB-specific cytotoxicity. In vivo priming with SEB abrogated the response of V beta 8.1,2+,CD4+ T cells despite the fact that these cells exist in significant number. This SEB-specific anergy occurred only in V beta 8.1,2+,CD4+ T cells but not in CD8+ T cells. These findings indicate that the requirement for the induction of antigen-specific anergy is different between CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in post-thymic tolerance, and the existence of coanergic signals for the induction of T cell anergy is suggested.
The immunoglobulin G (IgG) subclass response was investigated in horses with or without pyrexia after natural infection with equine herpesvirus type 1 (EHV-1) in the field. All horses were kept at the training centers of the Japan Racing Association and were immunized with an inactivated EHV-1 vaccine before EHV-1 infection. An IgG subclass response dominated by IgGa and IgGb was induced in horses without pyrexia after EHV-1 infection. In contrast, horses that developed pyrexia showed increased IgGc and IgG (T) subclass production in addition to IgGa and IgGb. Although inactivated EHV-1 vaccines are considered to induce a mainly Th-2-biased response, these results indicated that the responses in horses inoculated with inactivated EHV-1 vaccine were not uniform, and that horses with a Th-1-biased response were likely to be protected from pyrexia.
CD226, a member of cell adhesion molecules, has been widely studied in the immune system; however, its expression in the CNS remains unknown. In our present study, we detected CD226 mRNA and protein in the mouse hippocampus and cerebellum by RT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. Immunohistochemical studies found that CD226 is primarily located in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and stratum lucidum aligned along the pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA3 area, the interspaces of granular cells and the somata of the Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex during adulthood. Double-staining results revealed that CD226 co-localized well with synaptic marker proteins including synaptophysin, syntaxin and PSD-95. During postnatal development, CD226 could not be detected at its adult locations until postnatal day 12; however, it was temporally expressed in the somata of neighboring or distant nuclei associated with its adult location. These results showed the diverse localization of CD226 in the mouse hippocampus and cerebellum for the first time and suggested its potential role in the CNS.
To determine whether and which spirochetes are cleared from Ixodes ricinus ticks during feeding on ruminants, ticks were removed from goats and cattle grazing on tick-infested pastures. Although about a quarter of ticks questing on the pasture were infected by spirochetes, no molted ticks that had previously engorged to repletion on ruminants harbored Lyme disease spirochetes. Borrelia miyamotoi spirochetes, however, appear not to be eliminated. Thus, the more subadult ticks are diverted from reservoir-competent hosts to zooprophylactic ruminants, the smaller the risk of infection by Lyme disease spirochetes is.
We present the study of silver nanocube (Ag NC)-enhanced fluorescence of a cationic conjugated polyelectrolyte (CPE) for far-red/near-infrared fluorescence cell imaging. Layer-by-layer self-assembly of polyelectrolytes on 78 nm Ag NCs is used to control CPE-metal distance and its effect on CPE fluorescence. The highest fluorescence enhancement factor (FEF) is obtained for Ag NCs with two bilayers, corresponding to a CPE-metal spacer thickness of ~6 nm. At the optimal excitation wavelength, the FEF is 13.8 with respect to the control silica nanoparticles (NPs). The fluorescent NPs are further used for cellular imaging studies. The CPE-loaded Ag NCs with two bilayers exhibit excellent image contrast, superior to the control of CPE-silica NP at a similar uptake efficiency. The viability test indicates low cytotoxicity of the CPE-loaded Ag NCs, rendering them as promising cell imaging agents.
Spiny lobster Panulirus homarus which had been exposed to cupric ion at 9.55 and 19.1 mug/l for 28 days was examined for sub-lethal effects including morphology, wet weight, and induced genotoxic effect on the chromosome. Following cupric exposure, the color of lobster P. homarus changed from yellowish-brown to greenish black in the hepatopancreas, changed from normal creamy white to yellowish white in the muscle, and changed to greenish black in the gill. A significant change in the percentage of wet weight of muscle (28.70 +/- 0.41-23.47 +/- 0.45), hepatopancreas (4.03 +/- 0.12-2.63 +/- 0.17), and gills (3.63 +/- 0.45-3.87 +/- 0.12) were observed in the copper-treated lobsters. The diploid number of chromosomes of P. homarus was over 200 metaphases from ten lobsters, as 2n = 58, and consisted of 16 acrocentric, seven metacentric, and six sub-metacentric chromosomes. The lobsters exposed to cupric ion at 9.55 and 19.1 mug/l showed different types of chromosomal aberrations such as centromeric gaps, chromatid breaks, centromeric fusion, stickiness, ring chromosomes, and acrocentric association region. The frequency of aberrations increased with duration of exposure. In conclusion, it was suggested that cupric ion interacts with the spindle formation and consequently distorts the normal karyomorphology, indicating cytogenetic effect on lobster.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) may be the cause of both primary and secondary brain diseases. In this review general features of HIV-associated neuropathology are discussed. Up to 90% of patients with AIDS have a variety of HIV-related brain diseases. Primary brain diseases including lymphocytic meningitis and HIV encephalitis are attributed directly to the effect of the virus on the brain. Secondary diseases including toxoplasmosis, cryptococcosis, primary leukoencephalopathies and lymphomas result from these patients' immunodeficiency status.
We examined the dephosphorylation of p36, a protein of D. discoideum that has previously been shown to be phosphorylated in a GDP-dependent manner (Anschutz et al., 1989). Specific dephosphorylation of p36 was found to occur in cell preparations but the activity responsible was strongly dependent upon the concentration of proteins in those extracts. When preparations were diluted, this activity was no longer detectable and the radiolabeled phosphate incorporated into p36 was stable. In contrast, p36 phosphorylation was seemingly unaffected by this treatment. Under the conditions where endogenous dephosphorylating activity was not detectable, the addition of GDP to the reaction resulted in substantial dephosphorylation of p36. The stimulation of this dephosphorylation process occurred at concentrations of GDP that were distinct from those that led to an increased p36 phosphorylation due to the previously reported stimulation of p36 protein kinase activity. Characterization of the dephosphorylation of p36 indicates that the same enzyme is responsible for the endogenous and GDP-stimulated activities. Additionally, these activities are identical when assayed with p36 that had been phosphorylated with ATP or GTP. In contrast to p36 kinase activity, the dephosphorylation of p36 did not display any developmental changes with respect to its regulatory features.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review provides an update on hypoparathyroidism (HPT), focusing on the major aspects of diagnosis, clinical manifestations and management of patients with hypocalcaemia due to HPT. RECENT FINDINGS: Recent advances in the understanding of the physiologic actions of parathormone (PTH) and vitamin D, and the application of molecular genetics, have clarified certain aspects of the pathogenesis, classification, diagnosis and management of HPT. SUMMARY: PTH promotes bone resorption, decreases urinary calcium excretion, enhances the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D and increases intestinal calcium absorption and phosphate renal excretion. Understanding the molecular cause of the disease in patients and their families has the potential for proper tailoring of genetic counselling, family screening and treatment. Signs and symptoms may be associated not only with the severity, chronicity and therapeutic endpoints in HPT but also with the different causes of the disease. Hypocalcaemia may be an asymptomatic laboratory finding or a life-threatening metabolic disturbance. Although the therapy of acute hypocalcaemia is usually readily accomplished, chronic hypocalcaemia remains a very difficult treatment problem. Replacement therapy with PTH could be a therapeutic option for refractory HPT.
Specific globular structures, 10-12 nm in diameter, having a high resistance to various physicochemical factors and infectivity have been isolated for the first time from the brain of 2 patients, who died of amyotrophic leukospongiosis (AL). It has been shown that these globules contain infectious major protease-resistant protein with a molecular weight of about 18-20 kD. The findings indicate the unique nature of a disease and they open new aspects of AL etiopathogenesis.
The objectives of the present study were to investigate the underlying mechanisms of genetic and cellular toxicity induced by silica nanoparticles (SiNPs) and determine if such toxicity is influenced by particle size. Commercially available amorphous SiNPs (12 nm, 5-10 nm, and 10-15 nm) and micrometer sized (SiP2 mum) silica were characterised for size, chemical composition, and aggregation state. Mouse lung epithelial (FE1) cells derived from MutaMouse were exposed to various concentrations (12.5, 25, 50, 100 mug/ml) of SiNPs and SiP2 mum. Cellular viability, clonogenic potential, oxidative stress, micronucleus formation, and mutant frequency were measured at different post-exposure time points. Cellular internalization of particles was assessed using nanoscale hyperspectral microscopy. Biological pathway and functional perturbations were assessed using DNA microarrays. Detailed characterization of particles confirmed their size, purity, and uniform dispersion in the exposure medium. Decreased cellular viability was observed acutely at 24h at concentrations higher than 25 mug/ml for all particle types, with SiNPs being the most sensitive; loss of viability was surface area dependent at the lowest concentration tested. However, only SiNP12 showed poor long-term survival. A size-dependent increase in micronucleus formation was also observed for SiNPs. In contrast to the viability results, SiP2 mum exhibited the highest potential to induce oxidative stress compared to the SiNPs at all tested concentrations. Gene ontology and biological pathway analysis revealed significant changes in the expression of genes implicated in lysosomal functions in SiNP12-treated cells, which appear closely associated with higher SiNP12 internalization and lysosomal rearrangements in the cytoplasm of these cells. These results suggest that SiNPs induce cellular and genetic toxicity in a size-dependent manner and that the observed toxicity may be the results of higher particle internalization of smaller SiNP and subsequent lysosomal overload.
We report a case of acute portal vein thrombosis (PVT) after a cesarean delivery. The patient was admitted for treatment of severe pre-eclampsia. On the second day after cesarean delivery, the elevations of aspartic aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase were observed. Thereafter, acute PVT was diagnosed with ultrasonography. Although early anticoagulant therapy seems to be effective in the treatment of acute PVT, close observation must be made due to the risk of bleeding.
1. The possible role of nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and cyclic adenosine diphosphate ribose (cADPR) as regulators of M-type K+ currents (IK(M)) has been studied in whole-cell patch-clamped NG108-15 mouse neuroblastoma x rat glioma cells that had been transformed to express m1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs). 2. Pre-incubation of NG108-15 cells for 6-8 h with streptozotocin (2-5 mM) reduced NAD+ levels by 40-50%. Nicotinamide (2-5 mM) increased NAD+ levels and prevented depletion by streptozotocin. 3. Streptozotocin pretreatment reduced the inhibition of IK(M) produced by 100 microM acetylcholine (ACh) from 51.6 +/- 7.0 to 29.1 +/- 7.5%. This was prevented by simultaneous pre-incubation with 2 mM nicotinamide or by adding 2 mM NAD+ to the pipette solution. Neither procedure significantly affected the initial amplitude of IK(M). 4. Inclusion of 2 microM cADPR in the pipette solution induced a slow loss of IK(M) with a time constant of about 20 min. 5. It is concluded that mAChR-induced inhibition of IK(M) requires intracellular NAD+. This might be needed for the formation of cADPR as a regulator or messenger for IK(M) inhibition.
The concept of a motor program has been used to interpret a diverse range of empirical findings related to preparation and initiation of voluntary movement. In the absence of an underlying mechanism, its exploratory power has been limited to that of an analogy with running a stored computer program. We argue that the theory of cortical cell assemblies suggests a possible neural mechanism for motor programming. According to this view, a motor program may be conceptualized as a cell assembly, which is stored in the form of strengthened synaptic connections between cortical pyramidal neurons. These connections determine which combinations of corticospinal neurons are activated when the cell assembly is ignited. The dynamics of cell assembly ignition are considered in relation to the problem of serial order. These considerations lead to a plausible neural mechanism for the programming of movements and movement sequences that is compatible with the effects of precue information and sequence length on reaction times. Anatomical and physiological guidelines for future quantitative models of cortical cell assemblies are suggested. By taking into account the parallel re-entrant loops between the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia, the theory of cortical cell assemblies suggests a mechanism for motor plans that involve longer sequences. The suggested model is compared with other existing neural network models for motor programming.
The purpose of this article is to provide an overview and perspective of the available options for clinical outcomes evaluation of articular cartilage repair in the knee. A nonsystematic literature review of reported clinical measures for functional, qualitative, and quantitative structural outcomes evaluation after knee articular cartilage repair was performed. Several outcome scores have been validated for articular cartilage repair in the knee with the International Knee Documentation Committee score, Lysholm score, and Knee injury Osteoarthritis Outcome Score being reported most frequently. Activity measures including Tegner and Marx activity scales and the rate of return to sports have direct practical relevance for athletically active patients. Macroscopic and histological assessment provides important structural information about repair cartilage quality and quantity. In addition, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) outcome scoring and functional MRI are gaining increasing popularity and promise less invasive systematic assessment. In summary, clinical outcome evaluation after cartilage repair can be performed by various established and validated functional outcome instruments as well as several evolving outcome parameters that provide clinically relevant outcome information for researchers, clinicians, and patients.
Metazoan akirin genes regulate innate immunity, myogenesis, and carcinogenesis. Invertebrates typically have one family member, while most tetrapod and teleost vertebrates have one to three. We demonstrate an expanded repertoire of eight family members in genomes of four salmonid fishes, owing to paralog preservation after three tetraploidization events. Retention of paralogs secondarily lost in other teleosts may be related to functional diversification and posttranslational regulation. We hypothesized that salmonid akirins would be transcriptionally regulated in fast-twitch skeletal muscle during activation of conserved pathways governing catabolism and growth. The in vivo nutritional state of Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus L.) was experimentally manipulated, and transcript levels for akirin family members and 26 other genes were measured by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), allowing the establishment of a similarity network of expression profiles. In fasted muscle, a class of akirins was upregulated, with one family member showing high coexpression with catabolic genes coding the NF-kappaB p65 subunit, E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, E3 ubiquitin ligases, and IGF-I receptors. Another class of akirin was upregulated with subsequent feeding, coexpressed with 14-3-3 protein genes. There was no similarity between expression profiles of akirins with IGF hormones or binding protein genes. The level of phylogenetic relatedness of akirin family members was not a strong predictor of transcriptional responses to nutritional state, or differences in transcript abundance levels, indicating a complex pattern of regulatory evolution. The salmonid akirins epitomize the complexity linking the genome to physiological phenotypes of vertebrates with a history of tetraploidization.
An important challenge in evolutionary biology is to understand how major changes in body form arise. The dramatic transition from a lizard-like to snake-like body form in squamate reptiles offers an exciting system for such research because this change is replicated dozens of times. Here, we use morphometric data for 258 species and a time-calibrated phylogeny to explore rates and patterns of body-form evolution across squamates. We also demonstrate how time-calibrated phylogenies may be used to make inferences about the time frame over which major morphological transitions occur. Using the morphometric data, we find that the transition from lizard-like to snake-like body form involves concerted evolution of limb reduction, digit loss, and body elongation. These correlations are similar across squamate clades, despite very different ecologies and >180 million years (My) of divergence. Using the time-calibrated phylogeny and ancestral reconstructions, we find that the dramatic transition between these body forms can occur in 20 My or less, but that seemingly intermediate morphologies can also persist for tens of millions of years. Finally, although loss of digits is common, we find statistically significant support for at least six examples of the re-evolution of lost digits in the forelimb and hind limb.
There is evidence that the nucleoprotein (NP) gene of the classical swine virus (A/Swine/1976/31) clusters with the early human strains at the nucleotide sequence level, while at the level of the amino acid sequence, as defined by consensus amino acids and in functional tests, its NP is clearly "avian like." Therefore it was suggested that the Sw/31 NP had been recently under strong selection pressure, possibly caused by reassortment with other avian influenza genes, whose gene products have to cooperate intimately with NP (Gammelin et al., 1989. Virology 170, 71-80). This suggestion has been investigated by sequencing the genes of internal and nonstructural proteins of Sw/31. The data on these sequences and on the phylogenetic trees are not in accordance with that suggestion: all these genes cluster with the early human strains at the nucleotide level while, at the level of the amino acid sequence, most of them are more closely related to the avian strains, thus resembling NP in this respect. This indicates that these genes rather evolved concomitantly with the NP gene. Our data are in agreement with the suggestion that, at about the time of the Spanish Flu (1918/19), a human influenza A (H1N1) virus entered the pig population. Furthermore, it is known that the NP of the human influenza A viruses--in contrast to that of the avian and swine strains--has been under strong selection pressure to change (Gammelin et al., 1990. Mol. Biol. Evol. 7, 194-200. Gorman et al., 1990a. J. Virol. 64, 1487-1497). Thus, after transfer of a human strain into pigs, the selection pressure might be released, enabling the NP and the other genes of the swine virus to evolve back to the optimal avian sequences, especially at the functionally important consensus positions. The swine influenza viruses circulating since 1979 in Northern Europe--represented by A/Swine/Germany/2/81 (H1N1)--have all genes, so far examined, derived from an avian influenza virus pool and are different from the classical swine viruses.
Light is a major environmental factor required for stomatal opening. Blue light (BL) induces stomatal opening in higher plants as a signal under the photosynthetic active radiation. The stomatal BL response is not present in the fern species of Polypodiopsida. The acquisition of a stomatal BL response might provide competitive advantages in both the uptake of CO2 and prevention of water loss with the ability to rapidly open and close stomata. We surveyed the stomatal opening in response to strong red light (RL) and weak BL under the RL with gas exchange technique in a diverse selection of plant species from euphyllophytes, including spermatophytes and monilophytes, to lycophytes. We showed the presence of RL-induced stomatal opening in most of these species and found that the BL responses operated in all euphyllophytes except Polypodiopsida. We also confirmed that the stomatal opening in lycophytes, the early vascular plants, is driven by plasma membrane proton-translocating adenosine triphosphatase and K(+) accumulation in guard cells, which is the same mechanism operating in stomata of angiosperms. These results suggest that the early vascular plants respond to both RL and BL and actively regulate stomatal aperture. We also found three plant species that absolutely require BL for both stomatal opening and photosynthetic CO2 fixation, including a gymnosperm, C. revoluta, and the ferns Equisetum hyemale and Psilotum nudum.
Desmocollin 2, a desmosomal component, is a key membrane glycoprotein critically involved in cell-cell adhesion and the maintenance of normal tissue architectures in epithelia. Reports exploring the link of desmocollin expression to cancers are limited. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of desmocollin 2 in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and, in particular, to determine the extent to which the patterns of desmocollin 2 expression correlated with the clinical parameters. Desmocollin 2 expression was evaluated in 308 cases of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma using immunohistochemistry. Western blotting and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction were performed to characterize the relative expression levels of desmocollin 2 isoforms. The results indicated that desmocollin 2 expression was reduced significantly in esophageal cancer in both protein and messenger RNA levels and that this reduction was associated with poor survival (P = .011). The expression of desmocollin 2 was prominent in normal esophageal epithelia and highly differentiated esophageal tumors, but was reduced or absent in poorly differentiated tumor specimens. Furthermore, in 74.7% of tumor tissues, desmocollin 2 immunoreactivity displayed an abnormal cytoplasmic localization that was correlated with poor tumor differentiation (P < .001), regional lymph node metastasis (P < .001), pathologic tumor-node-metastasis stages (P < .001), and poor prognosis (P = .048). Multivariate analysis showed that desmocollin 2 expression level was an independent prognostic factor for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. These data suggest that desmocollin 2 is involved in the transformation and development of esophageal tumors and that desmocollin 2 expression level and intracellular localization may serve as a predictor for patient outcomes.
The question of neuronal network development and organization is a principle one, which is closely related to aspects of neuronal and network form-function interactions. In-vitro two-dimensional neuronal cultures have proved to be an attractive and successful model for the study of these questions. Research is constraint however by the search for techniques aimed at culturing stable networks, whose electrical activity can be reliably and consistently monitored. A simple approach to form small interconnected neuronal circuits while achieving one-to-one neuron-electrode interfacing is presented. Locust neurons were cultured on a novel bio-chip consisting of carbon-nanotube multi-electrode-arrays. The cells self-organized to position themselves in close proximity to the bio-chip electrodes. The organization of the cells on the electrodes was analyzed using time lapse microscopy, fluorescence imaging and scanning electron microscopy. Electrical recordings from well identified cells is presented and discussed. The unique properties of the bio-chip and the specific neuron-nanotube interactions, together with the use of relatively large insect ganglion cells, allowed long-term stabilization (as long as 10 days) of predefined neural network topology as well as high fidelity electrical recording of individual neuron firing. This novel preparation opens ample opportunity for future investigation into key neurobiological questions and principles.
The pH sensitivity of a series of PbAEs synthesized from primary amines and diacrylates is studied. By changing alkyl groups of the amine monomers, the pKb can be tuned across a broad range (from 3.5 to 7.2). Micelles formed from a PEG-PbAE block copolymer retain the pH sensitivity of PbAE and can stably load hydrophobic molecules under neutral pH, while quickly dissociate and release their cargoes at pH approximately 6.0. When the chemotherapy drug DOX is loaded, the micelles show efficient cell proliferation inhibition to HeLa cells and fast intracellular release. Thus, the primary-amine-based PbAEs are shown to be promising in the construction of intracellular targeting drug delivery systems.
Alloreactive T cells recognize framework or peptide-dependent determinants on foreign MHC molecules. Among the peptide-dependent alloreactive T cells a significant proportion is specific for one particular peptide presented by the allo-MHC molecule as antigen-specific T cells would do. Such alloreactive, peptide-specific T cells are referred to as 'allorestricted'. High-avidity HLA-A*02 allorestricted cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) clones specific for peptide libraries can be generated from HLA-A*02(-) donors. We made use of this technique to study the role of closely related self-HLA molecules on shaping of the alloreactive T cell repertoire. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from HLA-A*0205 individuals were stimulated by HLA-A*0201 targets pulsed with an HLA-A*0201 peptide library. We did not observe a bias towards peptide-specific CTL in the HLA-A*0201-directed alloreactive repertoire of HLA-A*0205 donors as compared to HLA-A*02(-) donors. Comparison of the alloreactive T cell response between two donors having similar HLA haplotypes demonstrated that the allorestricted T cell repertoire is largely different between individuals.
Various models of experimental hypertension and clinical examples of increased renin formation from a stenotic kidney or a juxtaglomerular cell tumor have shown that increased circulating angiotensin II (Ang II) stimulates the intrarenal/intratubular renin-angiotensin system (RAS) that elicits renal vasoconstriction, enhanced tubular sodium reabsorption, and progressive development of hypertension and renal injury. The enhanced intrarenal Ang II activity is due to both receptor-mediated Ang II uptake and Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptor-mediated stimulation of renal angiotensinogen (AGT) mRNA and protein by proximal tubule cells. The increased AGT secretion leads to local formation of Ang II and spillover of AGT into the distal nephron segments as reflected by increased AGT excretion in the urine, which provides an index of intrarenal RAS activity. In clinical studies, increased urinary excretion of AGT has been demonstrated in hypertension, type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus, and several types of chronic kidney diseases. In addition, renin secretion from principal cells of the collecting ducts is increased by AT1 receptor activation and acts on AGT from the proximal tubule to form more Ang I. Renin and/or (pro)renin activity is enhanced by binding to the (pro)renin receptor (PRR) on intercalated cells or secreted as soluble PRR contributing further to AGT cleavage, thus making more substrate available for Ang II conversion by local angiotensin-converting enzyme. The augmented intratubular Ang II concentrations together with elevated renal interstitial Ang II concentrations contribute to sustained stimulation of sodium reabsorption, vasoconstriction, development of hypertension, and progressive renal injury and fibrosis.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) as a marker of inflammation and liver injury in the acute and subclinical phases of canine ehrlichiosis. Forty-two serum samples of dogs naturally infected with Ehrlichia canis were used, of which 24 were from animals with the acute phase of the disease and 18 with subclinical disease. In addition, sera from 17 healthy dogs were used as negative controls. The hematocrit, BChE activity, hepatic injury (alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST)), nitric oxide, and cytokines levels were evaluated. The BChE activity was significantly elevated (P<0.05) in dogs with the acute phase of the disease when compared to healthy animals. However, there was a reduction on BChE activity on dogs with subclinical disease compared to the other two groups. AST and ALT levels were significantly higher (P<0.05) in the acute phase, as well as the inflammatory mediators (NOx, TNF-alpha, INF-gamma, IL-4, IL-6) when compared to the control group. On the other hand, IL-10 levels were lower in the acute phase. Based on these results, we are able to conclude that the acute infection caused by E. canis in dogs leads to an increase on seric BChE activity and some inflammatory mediators. Therefore, this enzyme might be used as a marker of acute inflammatory response in dogs naturally infected by this bacterium.
Vibrio parahaemolyticus, a halophilic gram-negative bacterium, is a food-borne pathogen that largely inhabits marine and estuarine environments, and poses a serious threat to human and animal health all over the world. The hollow "needle" channel, a specific assemble of T3SS which exists in most of gram-negative bacteria, plays a key role in the transition of virulence effectors to host cells. In this study, needle protein VP1694 was successfully expressed and purified, and the fusion protein Trx-VP1694 was used to immunize Balb/c mice. Subsequently, a phage single-chain fragment variable antibody (scFv) library was constructed, and a specific scFv against VP1694 named scFv-FA7 was screened by phage display panning. To further identify the characters of scFv, the soluble expression vector pACYC-scFv-skp was constructed and the soluble scFv was purified by Ni(2+) affinity chromatography. ELISA analysis showed that the scFv-FA7 was specific to VP1694 antigen, and its affinity constant was 1.07 x 10(8 )L/mol. These results offer a molecular basis to prevent and cure diseases by scFv, and also provide a new strategy for further research on virulence mechanism of T3SS in V. parahaemolyticus by scFv.
Edible bird's nest (EBN) is made of the swiftlets' saliva, which has attracted rather more attention owing to its nutritious and medical properties. Although protein constitutes the main composition and plays an important role in EBN, few studies have focused on the proteomic profile of EBN. The purpose of this study was to produce a proteomic map and clarify common EBN proteins. Liquid-phase isoelectric focusing (LIEF) was combined with two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) for comprehensive analysis of EBN proteins. From 20 to 100 protein spots were detected on 2-DE maps of EBN samples from 15 different sources. The proteins were mainly distributed in four taxa (A, B, C, and D) according to their molecular mass. Taxa A and D both contained common proteins and proteins that may be considered another characteristic of EBN. Taxon A was identified using MALDI-TOF-TOF/MS and found to be homologous to acidic mammalian chitinase-like ( Meleagris gallopavo ), which is in glycosyl hydrolase family 18.
To describe the pattern of infective endocarditis in a tertiary hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, a retrospective review was made of all cases admitted between 1993 and 2003. Of 47 patients, a native valve was involved in 37 (78.7%) and a prosthetic valve in 10 (21.3%). Predisposing cardiac conditions were present in 27 patients: rheumatic and congenital heart disease were the most common. Blood cultures were positive in 76.4% of patients: the most commonly isolated organisms were Staphylococcus spp. in 20 patients (12 Sta. aureus and 8 coagulase-negative staphylococci) and Enterococcus spp. (6 patients). The complication rate was 78.7% and hospital mortality rate was 8.5%.
BACKGROUND: Mesothelial cell injury plays an important role in peritoneal fibrosis. Present clinical therapies aimed at alleviating peritoneal fibrosis have been largely inadequate. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are efficient for repairing injuries and reducing fibrosis. This study was designed to investigate the effects of MSCs on injured mesothelial cells and peritoneal fibrosis. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Rat bone marrow-derived MSCs (5 x 10(6)) were injected into Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats via tail vein 24 h after peritoneal scraping. Distinct reductions in adhesion formation; infiltration of neutrophils, macrophage cells; number of fibroblasts; and level of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 were found in MSCs-treated rats. The proliferation and repair of peritoneal mesothelial cells in MSCs-treated rats were stimulated. Mechanically injured mesothelial cells co-cultured with MSCs in transwells showed distinct increases in migration and proliferation. In vivo imaging showed that MSCs injected intravenously mainly accumulated in the lungs which persisted for at least seven days. No apparent MSCs were observed in the injured peritoneum even when MSCs were injected intraperitoneally. The injection of serum-starved MSCs-conditioned medium (CM) intravenously reduced adhesions similar to MSCs. Antibody based protein array of MSCs-CM showed that the releasing of TNFalpha-stimulating gene (TSG)-6 increased most dramatically. Promotion of mesothelial cell repair and reduction of peritoneal adhesion were produced by the administration of recombinant mouse (rm) TSG-6, and were weakened by TSG-6-RNA interfering. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Collectively, these results indicate that MSCs may attenuate peritoneal injury by repairing mesothelial cells, reducing inflammation and fibrosis. Rather than the engraftment, the secretion of TSG-6 by MSCs makes a major contribution to the therapeutic benefits of MSCs.
Sex is a mysterious phenomenon, which has puzzled even great sages. Human beings have researched and mastered the biology of sex. But that is not all. Sex needs to be understood from the spiritual perspective too. The vision of Osho is an enlightening experience in this regard. Out of the thousands of lectures, five lectures on sex made Osho most notorious. Born into a Jain family of Madhya Pradesh, Rajneesh, who later wanted himself to be called Osho, is a great master. He has spoken volumes on a wide range of topics ranging from sex to super-consciousness. His contributions in the area of sex are based on the principles of "Tantra" which has its origin from Buddhism. This article focuses on his life and insights on sex, which if understood properly, can be a stepping stone for enlightenment.
Epilepsy is a significant but potentially preventable complication of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Previous research in animal models of acquired epilepsy has implicated the calcium-sensitive phosphatase, calcineurin. In addition, our lab recently found that calcineurin activity in the rat hippocampus increases acutely after lateral TBI. Here we use a calcineurin inhibitor test whether an acute increase in calcineurin activity is necessary for the development of late post-traumatic seizures. Adult rats were administered the calcineurin inhibitor Tacrolimus (5mg/kg; i.p.) 1 hour after lateral fluid percussion TBI and then monitored by video-electrocorticography (video-ECoG) for spontaneous seizure activity 5 weeks or 33 weeks later. At 5 weeks post-TBI, we observed epileptiform activity on the video-ECoG of brain injured rats but no seizures. By 33 weeks post-TBI though, nearly all injured rats exhibited spontaneous seizures, including convulsive seizures which were infrequent but lasted minutes (18% of injured rats), and non-convulsive seizures which were frequent but lasted tens of seconds (94% of injured rats). We also identified non-convulsive seizures in a smaller subset of control and sham TBI rats (56%), reminiscent of idiopathic seizures described in other rats strains. Non-convulsive seizures in the brain injured rats, however, were four-times more frequent and two-times longer lasting than in their uninjured littermates. Interestingly, rats administered Tacrolimus acutely after TBI showed significantly fewer non-convulsive seizures than untreated rats, but a similar degree of cortical atrophy. The data thus indicate that administration of Tacrolimus acutely after TBI suppressed non-convulsive seizures months later.
OBJECTIVES: To review cancer biology and associated genetic change. DATA SOURCES: Professional journals, texts, monographs, and Internet websites. CONCLUSION: Several types of genetic damage occur in cancer cells: activation of protooncogenes into oncogenes that give cells an abnormal growth advantage; inactivation of tumor suppressor genes that would normally slow or stop abnormal cell growth; the bypass of genes that cause aberrant cells to die by apoptosis; the ability to establish vasculature, and the ability to override genes that regulate cell senescence. The end result of accumulated genetic errors is cells that can reproduce without restriction, invade local tissues, and ultimately, establish distant metastases. IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Identification of the genetic changes in cancer cells and of the proteins that these changes affect promises to provide diagnostic and prognostic markers as well as molecular targets for therapeutic intervention. It is critical that nurses have a basic understanding of cell biology and genetics so they may better comprehend the unfolding changes in medicine to best serve patients and families.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to compare fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy during Mueller's maneuver (FNMM) with fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy with simulation of snoring (FNSS) for upper airway (UA) assessment in patients with obstructive sleep apnea and hypopnea syndrome. We also investigated the relationship between daytime endoscopic examinations and nocturnal pressure measurements. METHODS: We conducted a prospective, case-series study at Peking Union Medical College Hospital. All patients were evaluated by daytime FNMM and FNSS. The retropalatal and retroglossal regions were continuously video recorded during quiet breathing, FNMM, and FNSS. We calculated the narrowing rate and determined the level of obstruction and pattern of collapse (lateral, anterior-posterior, or concentric). Patients also underwent nocturnal pressure measurements to identify obstruction sites. RESULTS: Ninety-two patients were enrolled. FNMM and FNSS detected retropalatal obstruction in every case. Fifty-six and 38 patients had retroglossal obstruction detected by FNMM and FNSS, respectively. There was diagnostic agreement between FNMM and FNSS in 72 patients when diagnosing retroglossal obstruction, but the patterns of collapse were different using each technique. Pressure measurements showed that lower apnea and hypopnea index (AHI) and the proportion of lower AHI were significantly lower in the isolated retropalatal obstruction group than in the combined obstruction group diagnosed with either FNMM or FNSS (p < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Daytime FNMM and FNSS are reliable for evaluating the level of obstruction and pattern of UA collapse, and correlate with sleep study findings. FNSS may provide some different information regarding patterns of collapse and retroglossal obstruction from FNMM. Both techniques are helpful for determining surgical strategies.
Chronic kidney disease represents a dramatic worldwide resource-consuming problem. This problem is of increasing importance even in preterm infants, since nephrogenesis may go on only for a few weeks (4 to 6 weeks) after birth. Recent literature focusing on traditional regenerative medicine does not take into account the presence of a high number of active endogenous stem cells in the preterm kidney, which represents a unique opportunity for starting regenerative medicine in the perinatal period. Pluripotent cells of the blue strip have the capacity to generate new nephrons, improving kidney function in neonates and potentially protecting them from developing chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease in adulthood. There is a marked interindividual neonatal variability of nephron numbers. Moreover, the renal stem/progenitor cells appear as densely-packed small cells with scant cytoplasm, giving rise to a blue-appearing strip in hematoxylin-eosin-stained kidney sections ("the blue strip"). There are questions concerning renal regenerative medicine: among preliminary data, the simultaneous expression of Wilms tumor 1 and thymosin beta4 in stem/progenitor cells of the neonatal kidney may bring new prospects for renal regeneration applied to renal stem cells that reside in the kidney itself. A potential approach could be to prolong the 6 weeks of postnatal renal growth of nephrons or to accelerate the growth of nephrons during the 6 weeks or both. Considering what we know today about perinatal programming, this could be an important step for the future to reduce the incidence and global health impact of chronic kidney disease.
DGGE of 16S rDNA is one of the most frequently used methods to study microbial communities. In this study, the DGGE profiles of different 16S rDNA regions of the periodontal pathogens Porphyromonas gingivalis, Fusobacterium nucleatum, and Prevotella nigrescens were investigated. The results suggested that V3-V5 and V6-V8 fragments may be suitable for community analysis of subgingival bacteria. Further analysis of subgingival samples with V3-V5 and V6-V8 regions as target fragments suggested that, in chronic periodontitis, re-colonization by periodontal bacteria with a population very similar to the baseline may occur by 6 weeks after mechanical debridement.
To develop a functional food from the dietary fiber fraction of germinated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) (GBF), lactic acid fermentation was attempted using Lactobacillus acidophilus, Streptococcus thermophilus, and Bifidobacterium bifidus. The quality characteristics of the lactic acid-fermented product and its effect on gastrointestinal function in an animal model were examined. The anaerobic fermentation of 1% and 2% GBF yielded lactic acid bacteria at 8.9 +/- 1.0 x 10(8) and 1.6 +/- 0.2 x 10(9) colony-forming units/mL, and it was considered acceptable for consumption by sensory assessment. To determine the effect on gastrointestinal function, Sprague-Dawley rats were fed with three types of diets: a normal chow diet and chow diets supplemented with 10% lactic acid bacteria or a yogurt fermented with 2% GBF (GBFY). The rats fed GBFY for 6 weeks gained less body weight, excreted more fecal mass, and had improved gastrointestinal transit as examined with barium sulfate. The effect of GBFY on colonic epithelial proliferation was investigated through loperamide (LPM)-induced constipation in rats. The rats fed with GBFY for 6 weeks were intraperitoneally administered LPM twice daily for 7 days. GBFY supplementation decreased fecal excretion and moisture content in feces and depleted goblet cells as observed by hematoxylin and eosin stain. However, the rats supplemented with GBFY prior to the LPM administration had enhanced bowel movement, mucin secretion, and production of short-chain fatty acids compared with values for the LPM-alone group. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the GBFY supplement increased the numbers of nuclei stained positively for Ki-67 and extended from the base to the middle zone of crypts. These results indicate that GBFY alleviates constipation via the proliferation of the colonic crypts in LPM-administered rats.
We present a small series of patients with primary glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), and combine individual genetic data with pathohistologic characteristics and clinical outcome. Eighteen patients (12 men, 6 women, median age 51 years) with histologically proven GBM underwent surgical debulking followed by radiotherapy. Fifteen received concomitant chemotherapy. Histologic typing, immunohistochemistry for CD34, karyotypic analysis, and classification of the pattern of neovascularization was done in all patients. In 12/18, we performed methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction of the MGMT gene (O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase). The survival duration of patients spanned 3-58 months. By classical banding methods, 15/18 patients showed at least one aberration characteristic for primary glioblastoma (+7 in 7/18, deletions of 9p in 10/18 and -10 or deletions from 10q in 8/18 patients). We could not assess whether patients who survived for longer periods showed less complex or fewer aberrations than the patients who survived less than one year. Losses of 6p21(VEGF), 4q27(bFGF), and 12p11 approximately p13 (ING4) were associated with the "bizarre" pattern of neoangiogenesis. Methylation of the MGMT promoter was found in 3/12 patients. Even in this small series, the main characteristic of GBM was its diversity regarding all investigated histologic and genetic characteristics. This extreme diversity should be considered in the design of targeted therapies in GBM.
We describe a case of primary renal synovial sarcoma (SS) in a 48-year-old man. The patient presented with hematuria and was found to have a large tumor in his left kidney on computed tomography scan. Histology revealed a highly cellular spindle cell neoplasm with minimal pleomorphism. The major differential diagnoses included leiomyosarcoma, hemangiopericytoma, and SS. The presence of focal areas with a biphasic pattern, uniformly positive immunostain for bcl-2, focally positive immunostains for epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin, and negative immunostains for CD-34, smooth muscle actin and S-100 established the diagnosis. This was subsequently confirmed by molecular testing for t(X;18) translocation. Since the existence of primary SS in the kidney was first suggested in 1999, to the best of our knowledge a total of 19 cases including the present case have been reported to date. Although primary renal SS is rare, these findings indicate that it should be included in the differential diagnosis of spindle cell tumors of the kidney.
The proliferation of cardiac fibroblasts is implicated in the pathogenesis of myocardial remodeling and fibrosis. Intermediate-conductance calcium-activated K(+) channels (K(Ca)3.1 channels) have important roles in cell proliferation. However, it is unknown whether angiotensin II (Ang II), a potent profibrotic molecule, would regulate K(Ca)3.1 channels in cardiac fibroblasts and participate in cell proliferation. In the present study, we investigated whether K(Ca)3.1 channels were regulated by Ang II, and how the channel activity mediated cell proliferation in cultured adult rat cardiac fibroblasts using electrophysiology and biochemical approaches. It was found that mRNA, protein, and current density of K(Ca)3.1 channels were greatly enhanced in cultured cardiac fibroblasts treated with 1 muM Ang II, and the effects were countered by the angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT(1)R) blocker losartan, the p38-MAPK inhibitor SB203580, the ERK1/2 inhibitor PD98059, and the PI3K/Akt inhibitor LY294002. Ang II stimulated cell proliferation and the effect was antagonized by the K(Ca)3.1 blocker TRAM-34 and siRNA targeting K(Ca)3.1. In addition, Ang II-induced increase of K(Ca)3.1 expression was attenuated by transfection of activator protein-1 (AP-1) decoy oligodeoxynucleotides. These results demonstrate for the first time that Ang II stimulates cell proliferation mediated by upregulating K(Ca)3.1 channels via interacting with the AT(1)R and activating AP-1 complex through ERK1/2, p38-MAPK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways in cultured adult rat cardiac fibroblasts.
PURPOSE: To survey the disclosure policy for authors, peer reviewers, and editors in English-language ophthalmology journals. DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey. PARTICIPANTS: English-language ophthalmology journals. METHODS: All indexed English-language ophthalmology journals were identified. The journals' websites were reviewed for published conflict-of-interest disclosure policies for authors, peer reviewers, and editors. In cases where no policy was found, the journal's editor was contacted directly to confirm if a policy existed. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The existence of conflict-of-interest policy for authors, peer reviewers, and editors. RESULTS: Forty-two English-language ophthalmology journals were identified. Web-based published conflict-of-interest policies were found for authors in 33 (79%), for peer reviewers in 3 (7%), and for editors in 2 (5%) of the 42 journals. After contacting those journals with no published policies, these numbers increased to 37 (100%) of 37 for authors, 18 (60%) of 30 for peer reviewers, and 10 (33%) of 30 for editors. Seven journals with published disclosure policies for authors, but not for peer reviewers or editors, did not respond to the survey, and a further 5 journals without any published disclosure policy did not respond to the survey. Journals with a higher impact factor were more likely to have a web-based published disclosure policy for peer reviewers and a disclosure policy for editors. CONCLUSIONS: Most English-language ophthalmology journals have a conflict-of-interest policy for authors; however, they are not publicly available in 21% of journals. Conflict-of-interest policies for peer reviewers and editors are less common and are more likely not to be published compared with those for authors. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Loss of circulation in a patient results in collapse and therefore possible head injury. After percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) including anticoagulation, comatose patients are sedated for mild therapeutic hypothermia. Recognised or unrecognised head trauma may have dramatic clinical consequences. A 42-year-old male with unrecognised head trauma died due to a massive intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) during the hypothermia phase after being treated with PCI. A 76-year-old female, on anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation, with recognised ICH which resulted in an adjusted PCI, died after five days due to a lethal re-bleed. In a 55-year-old male with neurological abnormalities after mild head trauma, the PCI was postponed for a (negative) head CT which might have increased cardiac muscle damage. Nowadays more patients reach hospital after being resuscitated for cardiac arrest and possible head trauma should be considered in all these patients. This could lead to adjustments being made in the treatment protocol.
The present study tested the hypothesis that spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) have impaired nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-mediated regulation of vascular function versus Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Aorta and small mesenteric arteries were studied from male and female SHR (M SHR and F SHR) and WKY (M WKY and F WKY). Phenylephrine (PE)-induced vasoconstriction was greater in aorta of M SHR versus all others (P < 0.05); there were neither sex nor strain differences in PE contraction in mesenteric arteries. The NOS inhibitor l-Nitro-Arginine Methyl Ester (l-NAME) increased PE-induced vasoconstriction in all rats, although the increase was the least in male SHR (P < 0.05), revealing a blunted vasoconstrictor buffering capacity of NOS. l-NAME increased sensitivity to PE-induced constriction only in mesenteric arteries of SHR, although, the maximal percent increase in contraction was comparable among groups. ACh-induced relaxation was also less in aorta from M SHR versus all others (P < 0.05). ACh relaxation was comparable among groups in mesenteric arteries, although SHR exhibited a greater NOS component to ACh-induced relaxation than WKY. To gain mechanistic insight into sex and strain differences in vascular function, NOS activity and NOS3 protein expression were measured. Aortic NOS activity was comparable between groups and M SHR had greater NOS3 expression than M WKY. In contrast, although vascular function was largely maintained in mesenteric arteries of SHR, NOS activity was less in SHR versus WKY. In conclusion, M SHR exhibit a decrease in NOS regulation of vascular function compared to F SHR and WKY, although this is not mediated by decreases in NOS activity and/or expression.
A 4-year-old boy with leukemic blasts of myeloid lineage was shown by bone marrow (BM) examination to have a balanced 7;12 translocation. To our knowledge, this translocation in association with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has not been reported previously.
Although previous studies have demonstrated that the natural coumarin compound esculetin possesses various pharmacological properties, the molecular mechanism of esculetin-mediated anti-inflammatory potential is not fully understood. In this study, we determined the effects of esculetin on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory responses of murine RAW 264.7 macrophages. The results indicate that esculetin inhibits LPS-induced nitric oxide and prostaglandin E2 production in a concentration-dependent manner, and inhibits inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 expression in RAW 264.7 cells. Esculetin also significantly suppresses the production of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta, which was concomitant with a decrease in their expression levels. Furthermore, it was observed that esculetin attenuated the LPS-mediated nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) translocation associated with the blocking of inhibitor of NF-kappaB (IkappaB)-alpha degradation as well as reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, without any significant cytotoxicity. These data suggest that, by blocking NF-kappaB activation, esculetin suppresses LPS-elicited inflammatory events, and this is mediated, at least in part, by inhibiting the generation of ROS. Collectively, these findings provide mechanistic insights into the anti-inflammatory action of esculetin in macrophages.
The emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC), CH4, N2O and NH3 during the solid state fermentation process of some selected wastes to obtain different enzymes have been determined at pilot scale. Orange peel+compost (OP), hair wastes+raw sludge (HW) and winterization residue+raw sludge (WR) have been processed in duplicate in 50 L reactors to provide emission factors and to identify the different VOC families present in exhaust gaseous emissions. Ammonia emission from HW fermentation (3.2+/-0.5 kg Mg(-1) dry matter) and VOC emission during OP processes (18+/-6 kg Mg(-1) dry matter) should be considered in an industrial application of these processes. Terpenes have been the most emitted VOC family during all the processes although the emission of sulphide molecules during HW SSF is notable. The most emitted compound was dimethyl disulfide in HW and WR processes, and limonene in the SSF of OP.
Advances in handheld computer technology are making data collection faster, easier, and more accurate. In this article, the use of personal digital assistants (PDAs) to collect data for a study on elder neglect is described and evaluated. Methods for integrating this technology into a research study are discussed as are suggestions for increasing the performance of data collectors using these devices. The authors offer some practical solutions for researchers and clinicians planning to use PDAs in their research.
Cefuroxime-axetil, the 1-acetoxyethyl ester of cefuroxime, is a prodrug for oral administration. The indication of this new formulation in the treatment of community acquired RTI required an updating of its activity against respiratory pathogens. A total of 260 isolates were included in a study using MIC determination (agar dilution technique): the mode MICs for Haemophilus spp., Branhamella catarrhalis, streptococci, S. pneumoniae ranged from 0.016 to 0.5 mg/l; no difference was noted between beta-lactamase producers and non producers in Haemophilus and B. catarrhalis; coagulase positive staphylococci, E. coli, K. pneumoniae isolated from RTI exhibited mode MICs not exceeding 4 mg/l (except for methicillin-R staphylococci mode MIC greater than 128 mg/l). Simultaneously the pharmacokinetic parameters were determined in healthy volunteers after a loading dose (500 mg) of the drug: 7 consecutive samples collected after a light meal provided the following data: Cmax = 7.77 +/- 2.2 mg/l; Tmax = 2.33 +/- 0.23 hrs; t1/2 beta = 1.18 +/- 0.19 hrs; AUC = 22.17 +/- 6.4 h.mg/l. Cmax and AUC were half of these values after administration of 250 mg. These results, together with the known intrinsic beta-lactamase stability of cefuroxime, should ensure sufficient in vivo concentrations and effective in vivo antibacterial activity against most respiratory pathogens after oral administration of cefuroxime-axetil.
BACKGROUND: Resident macrophages in OA synovial tissue contribute to synovitis through pro-inflammatory mediators driving cartilage loss. What remains unknown is how these macrophages interact with synovial mesenchymal progenitor cells (sMPCs) in the joint. sMPCs have the potential to undergo chondrogenesis, but for yet unknown reasons, this ability is decreased in OA patients. In this study, we sought to identify if alteration of macrophage activity regulates the chondrogenic capacity of sMPCs. METHODS: An explant model was developed using human synovium obtained from normal individuals and OA patients. These explants were subjected to macrophage depletion and/or cytokine stimulation in order to regulate/deplete the residing macrophage population. Supernatant was collected following a 12-day treatment phase and subjected to inflammatory secretome analysis. sMPCs from the explants were subsequently placed under 21-day chondrogenic differentiation and levels of type II collagen (Col2a), Aggrecan (Acan), and Sox9 gene expression was quantified. RESULTS: Inflammatory secretome analysis from OA patients revealed the presence of pro-inflammatory analytes following pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine stimulation and/or macrophage depletion. Additionally, chondrogenic differentiation of sMPCs was heterogeneously impacted across all OA patients following pro-/anti-inflammatory cytokine stimulation and/or macrophage depletion. CONCLUSION: Tissue resident synovial macrophages can regulate the chondrogenic differentiation of sMPCs after cytokine stimulation in a patient specific manner. The secretion profile of OA synovium was also responsive to cytokine stimulation and/or macrophage depletion as observed by the largely pro-inflammatory milieu upregulated following cytokine stimulation.
Confocal microscopy allows analysis of fluorescent labeled thick specimens without physical sectioning. Optical sections are generated by eliminating out-of-focus fluorescence and displayed as digitalized images. It allows 3-dimensional reconstruction (XYZ) and time-analysis (XYT), thus providing unique chance to link morphology with cell function. Since images are obtained by scanning, excess illumination of the specimen and quick decrease of the fluorescent signal are avoided. Resolution obtained with a Laser Scanning Confocal Microscopy (LSCM) is theoretically better than that of a conventional microscope. The preparation of the specimen may be based on standard techniques, such as immunocytochemistry applied to fixed cells, or on staining of living cells, following the use of different fluorescent probes at the same time (colocalization). In our laboratory, we use the LSCM system Fluoview version 2.1 (Olympus) to study reproductive biology of animals and humans. We work on stainings of oocytes and blastocysts (mouse, bovine, human), and human ovarian tissues. We study mitochondrial distribution, cortical granule migration, calcium oscillations and spindle quality to link culture conditions and oocyte quality. Staining of F-actin is used to check transzonal projections (in zona pellucida) or to detect abnormalities following experimental treatment. Blastocyst quality is analyzed in sequential optical sections for microfilament organization and counting of total cell number (staining with phalloidin (actin) and picogreen (DNA). Trophectoderm and inner cell mass distribution (differential staining), apoptotic cells (TUNEL method) and viable cells (live/dead test) are also evaluated. Confocal imaging can be helpful for rapid determination of follicle density (staining with AM Calcein) and follicle morphology (picogreen) in ovarian cortical biopsies. The current review describes the principles of confocal microscopy and illustrates its applications to the field of reproductive biology by a large collection of pictures.
In this issue of Molecular Cell, Brickner and colleagues (Light et al., 2010) identify a DNA sequence that mediates transcriptional memory and retention of recently active INO1 at the nuclear pore complex.
The high-risk Human Papillomavirus (HPV) E6 oncoproteins are characterised by the presence of a class I PDZ-binding motif (PBM) on their extreme carboxy termini. The PBM is present on the E6 proteins derived from all cancer-causing HPV types, but can also be found on some related non-cancer-causing E6 proteins. We have therefore been interested in investigating the potential functional differences between these different E6 PBMs. Using an unbiased proteomic approach in keratinocytes, we have directly compared the interaction profiles of these different PBMs. This has allowed us to identify the potential PDZ target fingerprints of the E6 PBMs from 7 different cancer-causing HPV types, from 3 HPV types with weak cancer association, and from one benign HPV type that possesses an ancestral PBM. We demonstrate a striking increase in the number of potential PDZ targets bound by each E6 PBM as cancer-causing potential increases, and show that the HPV-16 and HPV-18 PBMs have the most flexibility in their PDZ target selection. Furthermore, the specific interaction with hScrib correlates directly with increased oncogenic potential. In contrast, hDlg is bound equally well by all the HPV E6 PBMs analysed, indicating that this is an evolutionarily conserved interaction, and was most likely one of the original E6 PBM target proteins that was important for the occupation of a potential new niche. Finally, we present evidence that the cell junction components ZO-2 and beta-2 syntrophin are novel PDZ domain-containing targets of a subset of high-risk HPV types.
Single-stranded positive-sense RNA viruses induce the biogenesis of cytoplasmic membranous vesicles, where viral replication takes place. However, the mechanism underlying this characteristic vesicular proliferation remains poorly understood. Previously, a 6-kDa potyvirus membrane protein (6K) was shown to interact with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and to induce the formation of the membranous vesicles. In this study, the involvement of the early secretory pathway in the formation of the 6K-induced vesicles was investigated in planta. By means of live-cell imaging, it was found that the 6K protein was predominantly colocalized with Sar1, Sec23, and Sec24, which are known markers of ER exit sites (ERES). The localization of 6K at ERES was prevented by the coexpression of a dominant-negative mutant of Sar1 that disables the COPII activity or by the coexpression of a mutant of Arf1 that disrupts the COPI complex. The secretion of a soluble secretory marker targeting the apoplast was arrested at the level of the ER in cells overexpressing 6K or infected by a potyvirus. This blockage of protein trafficking out of the ER by 6K and the distribution of 6K toward the ERES may account for the aggregation of the 6K-bound vesicles. Finally, virus infection was reduced when the accumulation of 6K at ERES was inhibited by impairing either the COPI or COPII complex. Taken together, these results imply that the cellular COPI and COPII coating machineries are involved in the biogenesis of the potyvirus 6K vesicles at the ERES for viral-genome replication.
Calcimimetics are indicated for secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic kidney disease, and some data have suggested their protective role for progression of renal damage. We aimed to evaluate whether a calcimimetic can slow the progression of kidney damage in uninephrectomized apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice. To this end, we compared its effect with that of calcitriol. Male ApoE-/- mice (12 wk old) were randomized to undergo sham operation (sham) or unilateral nephrectomy (UNX) and subsequently received the calcimimetic R-568 (4 mug.kg(-)(1).day(-)(1)), calcitriol (0.03 mug.kg(-)(1).day(-)(1)), or vehicle intraperitoneally. Glomerular number and volume, damage indexes (glomerular, vascular, and interstitial), and glomerular (podocytes, mesangial, and endothelial) cell number and volume were assessed in perfused kidneys after a 12-wk treatment period. Lower numbers of podocytes per glomerulus were observed in the UNX + vehicle group compared with the sham group, and this was prevented in the UNX + R-568 group but not in the UNX + calcitriol group. In parallel, albuminuria was higher in the untreated UNX group compared with the sham group, and the increase was prevented in the UNX + R-568 group. Interstitial fibrosis was more prevalent in the vehicle-treated UNX group compared with the sham group, and this was prevented in the UNX group treated with R-568 and less effectively with calcitriol treatment. In all UNX groups, the weight of the residual kidney was significantly higher compared with all sham groups. No differences were observed in serum ionized calcium and systolic blood pressure between the groups. The calcimimetic R-568 prevented interstial fibrosis and podocyte loss after uninephrectomy in ApoE-/- mice. Minor renal dysfunction, lack of secondary hyperparathyroidism, and hypertension in this model support the hypothesis of direct effects of this compound on glomerular cells.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of Chinese traditional medicine heluoshugan capsule on liver fibrosis induced by Schistosoma japonicum infection in mice. METHODS: Liver fibrosis in mice was established by Schistosoma japonicum infection in 6 weeks. Suspension of heluoshugan prepared with normal saline was given orally to the mice, 2 capsules for 20 mice daily for 8 weeks. The level of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and type I, III collagen in liver tissue were detected by immuno-histochemistry. RESULTS: The results showed that heluoshugan improved the pathological change of the liver tissue, decreased the level of type I, III collagen, especially type III collagen (P < 0.01). The level of VEGF and FAK expression was inhibited after the administration of heluoshugan, though the level usually increased in liver fibrosis due to the infection. CONCLUSIONS: The result suggests that heluoshugan capsule might have therapeutic effect on liver fibrosis induced by the infection of Schistosoma japonicum in mice, by inhibiting the activation of hepatic stellate cells and the pathological change of liver blood vessel.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family is responsible for important signalling pathways which regulate cell activation, differentiation, apoptosis and immune responses. Studies have shown that influenza virus infection activates MAPK family members in mammals. While the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 is important for virus replication, activation of p38 controls the expression of RANTES, interleukin (IL)-8 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. In this study, we report that avian influenza virus (AIV) activates ERK, p38 and Jun-N-terminal kinases in avian species. In chicken macrophages, while ERK was required for H9N2 AIV replication, ERK regulated proinflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6 and IL-8, which is distinct from what has been previously reported in mammalian cells. Moreover, ERK alone suppressed TNF-alpha and FasL and inhibited TNF-family-mediated extrinsic apoptosis in H9N2-infected chicken macrophages. Taken together, these findings suggest that ERK signalling may uniquely play important roles in avian host responses to AIV infection.
The orotidine monophosphate pyrophosphorylase (OMPPase) gene locus of the DNA of 13 Cryptococcus neoformans var. neoformans strains, including 10 recent clinical isolates, was studied by using restriction fragment length polymorphisms and nucleotide sequence analysis. The OMPPase locus (URA5) is highly polymorphic, and at least six alleles were identified. The nucleotide sequences of some alleles differed by up to 5%. The majority of the nucleotide polymorphisms in the protein-coding region occurred at the third codon position and were silent. The low frequency of replacement nucleotide substitutions relative to silent nucleotide substitutions implied that there is strong selection against amino acid changes in OMPPase. The allelic variation suggested that there is extensive genomic diversity among C. neoformans clinical isolates from one geographic area. The various alleles are potentially useful markers in the study of the population structure, epidemiology, and pathogenesis of C. neoformans strains.
The spatial and temporal organization of climbing fibre activation of Purkinje cells, the so-called complex spikes, were studied in the rat cerebellar Crus II folium utilizing a multiple microeletrode recording technique. As many as 32 Purkinje cells could be simultaneously recorded by using a custom-built electronic amplifier system and a special data storage device. Analysis of the auto-correlation activity of complex spikes in any given group of Purkinje cells indicated that activation occurs with a particular rhythmicity having a base firing of 10 Hz. Cross-correlation of spontaneous complex spikes demonstrated, in addition to a particular rhythmicity, an extraordinarily high degree of synchronicity within a particular spatial distribution of Purkinje cells. Thus, Purkinje cells organized in rostro-caudal rows tend to fire within 1 ms of each other for distances as far as 800 microm (the width of a folium) from the 'master' neuron. By contrast, Purkinje cells located medial or lateral to the master neuron showed almost no cross-correlation. Administration of harmaline to the animal increased the degree of auto- and cross-correlation but did not change the spatial order of the distribution of the cross-correlation. The results indicate that the olivo-cerebellar system is organized in such a way that climbing fibre afferents may be activated in a close-to-synchronous and rhythmic fashion. The spatial distribution of these afferents over the cortex is such as to activate rostro-caudal bands of Purkinje cells which tend to fire in a close-to-synchronous manner.
PURPOSE: A multicenter, randomized phase II trial, RECORD-3, was conducted to compare first-line everolimus followed by sunitinib at progression with the standard sequence of first-line sunitinib followed by everolimus in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. PATIENTS AND METHODS: RECORD-3 used a crossover treatment design. The primary objective was to assess progression-free survival (PFS) noninferiority of first-line everolimus compared with first-line sunitinib. Secondary end points included combined PFS for each sequence, overall survival (OS), and safety. RESULTS: Of 471 enrolled patients, 238 were randomly assigned to first-line everolimus followed by sunitinib, and 233 were randomly assigned to first-line sunitinib followed by everolimus. The primary end point was not met; the median PFS was 7.9 months for first-line everolimus and 10.7 months for first-line sunitinib (hazard ratio [HR], 1.4; 95% CI, 1.2 to 1.8). Among patients who discontinued first-line, 108 (45%) crossed over from everolimus to second-line sunitinib, and 99 (43%) crossed over from sunitinib to second-line everolimus. The median combined PFS was 21.1 months for sequential everolimus then sunitinib and was 25.8 months for sequential sunitinib then everolimus (HR, 1.3; 95% CI, 0.9 to 1.7). The median OS was 22.4 months for sequential everolimus and then sunitinib and 32.0 months for sequential sunitinib and then everolimus (HR, 1.2; 95% CI, 0.9 to 1.6). Common treatment-emergent adverse events during first-line everolimus or sunitinib were stomatitis (53% and 57%, respectively), fatigue (45% and 51%, respectively), and diarrhea (38% and 57%, respectively). CONCLUSION: Everolimus did not demonstrate noninferiority compared with sunitinib as a first-line therapy. The trial results support the standard treatment paradigm of first-line sunitinib followed by everolimus at progression.
BACKGROUND: The management of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) has substantially improved in recent years, among others due to the introduction of new risk scores for the stratification of patients, as well as the availability of the non-vitamin K oral antagonists (NOAC). The PREFER-in-AF study aimed to document the management of AF patients with particular focus on stroke prevention on the basis of anticoagulants. METHODS AND RESULTS: In Germany, Austria and Switzerland a total of 1771 patients were enrolled between January 2012 and January 2013 (mean age 71.9 +/- 9.2 years; 63 % males).At inclusion, the mean time since AF diagnosis was 4.8 +/- 5.3 years. Paroxysmal AF was present in 30.7 %, persistent in 11 %, long standing persistent in 4.7 % and permanent AF in 53.3 % of the patients. 25.1 % of the Patients were in sinus rhythm. Mean CHA2DS2-VASc Score was 3.7 +/- 1.8 points (0 points in 3.0 %, 1 point in 7.1 %, >/= 2 points in 89.9 %).For the prevention of thromboembolic events 68.1 % of patients received vitamin K antagonists (VKA, mainly phenprocoumon), 11.6 % received a NOAC (mainly rivaroxaban or dabigatran), 7.6 % an antiplatelet agent, and 7.7 % a combination of VKA plus an antiplatelet agent. 5.0 % of patients did not receive any anticoagulant. During the 12 months prior to inclusion, interruption of VKA therapy due to an interventions was reported in 29.7 %. In the group of patients with known INR values and available CHA2DS2-VASc score, 75.1 % were adequately controlled (defined as at least 2 of 3 INR values in the range of 2.0-3.0).Bleeding propensity or bleedings in patient history were reported for 5.1 % of the patients, hospitalizations due to major bleeding events in the past 12 months for 1.9 %. Possible risk factors associated with anticoagulation were present in 76.7 %. Mean HAS-BLED score was 2.1 +/- 1.1 points. CONCLUSION: The rates of AF patients who received oral anticoagulation were about 90 % and substantially higher compared to previous observational studies. NAOCs were administered to 11.7 % of patients.
Over the last several years, many advances have been made in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection with the development of direct-acting antivirals. Paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir with dasabuvir (PrOD) is a novel combination of a nonstructural (NS) 3/4A protein inhibitor boosted by ritonavir, an NS5A protein inhibitor, and an NS5B nonnucleoside polymerase inhibitor. This review aims to discuss the pharmacology, efficacy, safety, drug interactions, and viral drug resistance of PrOD in the treatment of HCV genotype 1 infections. Phase I, II, and III human and animal studies that describe the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of PrOD for HCV were identified and included. Studies that evaluated patients without cirrhosis (n=2,249) and with cirrhosis (n=422) demonstrated that PrOD for 12 or 24 weeks was effective at achieving sustained virologic response rates (>90%) in patients with genotype 1a or 1b HCV infection. Although indicated for the treatment of HCV genotype 1 infection, PrOD is also recommended for the treatment of HCV in patients coinfected with HIV. Additionally, promising data exist for the use of PrOD in liver-transplant recipients. The most common adverse drug events associated with PrOD included nausea, pruritus, insomnia, diarrhea, asthenia, dry skin, vomiting, and anemia. The high efficacy rates seen coupled with a favorable side effect profile seen with PrOD with or without ribavirin have led to its addition as a recommended treatment regimen for HCV genotype 1 infection.
BACKGROUND: In-situ audiometry is a hearing aid feature that enables the measurement of hearing threshold levels through the hearing instrument using the built-in sound generator and the hearing aid receiver. This feature can be used in hearing aid fittings instead of conventional pure-tone audiometry (PTA), particularly in places where no standard audiometric equipment is available. Differences between conventional and in-situ thresholds are described and discussed for some particular hearing aids. No previous investigation has measured and compared these differences for a number of current hearing aid models by various manufacturers across a wide range of hearing losses. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to perform a model-based comparison of conventionally and in-situ measured hearing thresholds. Data were collected for a range of hearing aid devices to study and generalize the effects that may occur under clinical conditions. RESEARCH DESIGN: Research design was an experimental and regression study. STUDY SAMPLE: A total of 30 adults with sensorineural hearing loss served as test persons. They were assigned to three subgroups of 10 subjects with mild (M), moderate to severe (MS), and severe (S) sensorineural hearing loss. INTERVENTION: All 30 test persons underwent both conventional PTA and in-situ audiometry with four hearing aid models by various manufacturers. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The differences between conventionally and in-situ measured hearing threshold levels were calculated and evaluated by an exploratory data analysis followed by a sophisticated statistical modeling process. RESULTS: At 500 and 1500 Hz, almost all threshold differences (conventional PTA minus in-situ data) were negative, i.e., in the low to mid frequencies, hearing loss was overestimated by most devices relative to PTA. At 4000 Hz, the majority of differences (7 of 12) were positive, i.e., in the frequency range above 1500 Hz, hearing loss was frequently underestimated. As hearing loss increased (M-->MS-->S), the effect of the underestimation decreased. At 500 and 1500 Hz, Resound devices showed the smallest threshold deviations, followed by Phonak, Starkey, and Oticon instruments. At 4000 Hz, this observed pattern partly disappeared and Starkey and Oticon devices showed a reversed effect with increasing hearing loss (M-->MS-->S). Because of high standard errors for the estimates, only a few explicit rankings of the devices could be established based on significant threshold differences (5% level). CONCLUSIONS: Differences between conventional PTA and in-situ threshold levels may be attributed to (1) frequency, (2) device/hearing loss, and (3) calibration/manufacturer effects. Frequency effects primarily resulting in an overestimation of hearing loss by in-situ audiometry in the low and mid frequencies are mainly due to sound drain-off through vents and leaks. Device/hearing loss effects may be due to leakage as well as boundary effects because in-situ audiometry is confined to a limited measurement range. Finally, different calibration approaches may result in different offset levels between PTA and in-situ audiometry calibration. In some cases, the observed threshold differences of up to 10-15 dB may translate to varied hearing aid fittings for the same user depending on how hearing threshold levels were measured.
BACKGROUND: After deep excision of burn eschar down to the muscle fascia patients have a non-reversible loss of the skin and underlying subcutaneous tissue. These patients would benefit from the development of a sufficient epidermal, dermal, and hypodermal tissue-engineered replacement provided by new technologies of tissue engineering. The aim of the present study was to determine whether keratinocytes and preadipocytes grow simultaneously on a bovine-derived collagen-elastin matrix under in vitro conditions in order to obtain a multi-layer skin substitute. METHODS: Human keratinocytes as well as human preadipocytes were seeded onto a collagen-elastin matrix (Matriderm(R)). Human preadipocytes were isolated from human subcutaneous adipose tissue and seeded onto the scaffold directly after isolation. Keratinocytes were isolated from fresh human split-thickness skin harvests and seeded onto the surface of the scaffold after 4 days of proliferation. Twenty one days after seeding all scaffolds were histologically evaluated, using hematoxylin eosin, immunohistochemical staining with collagen IV as well as immunofluorescence labeling with anti-Ki67 antibody and DAPI (4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole). RESULTS: Simultaneous growth of keratinocytes and preadipocytes could be observed on the collagen-elastin matrix. Keratinocytes adhered well to the surface of the matrix and formed a confluent epidermis-like layer. Preadipocytes adhered well and also penetrated into the deeper layers of the matrix. CONCLUSION: In this study, a collagen-elastin matrix served as a suitable scaffold for simultaneous culturing of preadipocytes and keratinocytes. Preadipocytes showed good penetration into deeper layers of the scaffold, whereas keratinocytes attached only to the uppermost surface of the matrix. This approach towards a multi-layered skin substitute might be a useful asset for future reconstructive surgery.
BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Some bacteria have a natural tendency to adhere to available surfaces and to form biofilms. Biofilms have been demonstrated on right heart flow-directed catheters, endocardial pacemaker leads, urinary catheters, and other medical devices. In this study, we examined arterial and central venous catheters that had been in place in ICU patients between 1 and 14 days for the presence of bacterial biofilms by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and a special scraping/sonication bacterial recovery technique. The data taken from these processes were compared with skin entry site swabs and blood cultures and correlated with patient data on infection, bacterial colonization, and antibiotic use. RESULTS: Extensive biofilm formation was demonstrated by scanning electron microscopy on all 42 arterial and 26 central venous catheters. Bacteria were seen within the biofilms on 69% (29/42) of the arterial and 88% (23/26) of the central venous catheters. These two direct methods for the detection of biofilm bacteria on the catheter surfaces demonstrated the presence of adherent organisms on 81% of devices examined. Some catheters that had been in place for only 1 day were colonized by bacterial biofilms. Biofilm scraped from catheter surfaces and dispersed by mixing and sonication yielded cultures (32% of catheters) of predominantly skin bacteria. In a few instances, the recovery of bacteria from biofilms on vascular catheters coincided with positive cultures from skin entry site swabs and/or from the blood of the patient, but there was no significant correlation between bacterial recovery from the catheter surface, entry site, and/or patients' blood. CONCLUSIONS: Direct microscopic examination of 68 vascular catheters that had been in place 1 to 14 days showed that most (81%) were colonized by bacteria growing in slime-enclosed biofilms. In many cases, this colonization of catheter surfaces could be confirmed by special biofilm culture recovery methods. Although the clinical importance of bacterial biofilms on catheter surfaces is speculative, their presence and potential to serve as a nidus for infection and bacteremia in critically ill immunocompromised hosts are cause for concern.
During embryogenesis vertebral segmentation is initiated by sclerotomal cell migration and condensation around the notochord, forming anlagen of vertebral bodies and intervertebral discs. The factors that govern the segmentation are not clear. Previous research demonstrated that mutations in growth differentiation factor 6 resulted in congenital vertebral fusion, suggesting this factor plays a role in development of vertebral column. In this study, we detected expression and localization of growth differentiation factor 6 in human fetal spinal column, especially in the period of early ossification of vertebrae and the developing intervertebral discs. The extracellular matrix proteins were also examined. Results showed that high levels of growth differentiation factor 6 were expressed in the nucleus pulposus of intervertebral discs and the hypertrophic chondrocytes adjacent to the ossification centre in vertebral bodies, where strong expression of proteoglycan and collagens was also detected. As fetal age increased, the expression of growth differentiation factor 6 was decreased correspondingly with the progress of ossification in vertebral bodies and restricted to cartilaginous regions. This expression pattern and the genetic link to vertebral fusion suggest that growth differentiation factor 6 may play an important role in suppression of ossification to ensure proper vertebral segmentation during spinal development.
The determination of blood groups from blood stains is extremely important in medicolegal practice, but there is the possibility of an error in the determination of MN phenotypes by the absorption-elution test. We investigated a new method applying electrophoresis and immunoblotting. As a consequence of various experiments, the most appropriate pretreatment of blood stains was as follows. Blood stains were immersed in physiological saline for 0.5 to 1 h and centrifuged. The supernatant was discarded. The sediment was dissolved in sample buffer (TRIS-buffered physiological saline containing 2% sodium dodecyl sulfate) and followed by thermodegradation. It was subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). After transfer to a nitrocellulose membrane by Western blotting, MN phenotypes could be determined accurately from blood stains by an enzyme immunoassay (EIA) using commercially available polyclonal anti-M and anti-N sera. For blood stains more than 1 month old it was not easy to determine the MN phenotypes.
BACKGROUND: Amphibians in general are poor dispersers and highly philopatric, and landscape features often have important impacts on their population genetic structure and dispersal patterns. Numerous studies have suggested that genetic differentiation among amphibian populations are particularly pronounced for populations separated by mountain ridges. The Tsinling Mountain range of northern China is a major mountain chain that forms the boundary between the Oriental and Palearctic zoogeographic realms. We studied the population structure of the Chinese wood frog (Rana chensinensis) to test whether the Tsinling Mountains and the nearby Daba Mountains impose major barriers to gene flow. RESULTS: Using 13 polymorphic microsatellite DNA loci, 523 individuals from 12 breeding sites with geographical distances ranging from 2.6 to 422.8 kilometers were examined. Substantial genetic diversity was detected at all sites with an average of 25.5 alleles per locus and an expected heterozygosity ranging from 0.504 to 0.855, and two peripheral populations revealed significantly lower genetic diversity than the central populations. In addition, the genetic differentiation among the central populations was statistically significant, with pairwise FST values ranging from 0.0175 to 0.1625 with an average of 0.0878. Furthermore, hierarchical AMOVA analysis attributed most genetic variation to the within-population component, and the between-population variation can largely be explained by isolation-by-distance. None of the putative barriers detected from genetic data coincided with the location of the Tsinling Mountains. CONCLUSION: The Tsinling and Daba Mountains revealed no significant impact on the population genetic structure of R. chensinensis. High population connectivity and extensive juvenile dispersal may account for the significant, but moderate differentiation between populations. Chinese wood frogs are able to use streams as breeding sites at high elevations, which may significantly contribute to the diminishing barrier effect of mountain ridges. Additionally, a significant decrease in genetic diversity in the peripheral populations supports Mayr's central-peripheral population hypothesis.
Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused by Fusarium graminearum, is a devastating disease of small grain cereal crops. FHB causes yield reductions and contamination of grain with trichothecene mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). DON inhibits protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells and acts as a virulence factor during fungal pathogenesis, therefore resistance to DON is considered an important component of resistance against FHB. One mechanism of resistance to DON is conversion of DON to DON-3-O-glucoside (D3G). Previous studies showed that expression of the UDP-glucosyltransferase genes HvUGT13248 from barley and AtUGt73C5 (DOGT1) from Arabidopsis thaliana conferred DON resistance to yeast. Over-expression of AtUGt73C5 in Arabidopsis led to increased DON resistance of seedlings but also to dwarfing of transgenic plants due to the formation of brassinosteroid-glucosides. The objectives of this study were to develop transgenic Arabidopsis expressing HvUGT13248, to test for phenotypic changes in growth habit, and the response to DON. Transgenic lines that constitutively expressed the epitope-tagged HvUGT13248 protein exhibited increased resistance to DON in a seed germination assay and converted DON to D3G to a higher extent than the untransformed wild-type. By contrast to the over-expression of DOGT1 in Arabidopsis, which conjugated the brassinosteriod castasterone with a glucoside group resulting in a dwarf phenotype, expression of the barley HvUGT13248 gene did not lead to drastic morphological changes. Consistent with this observation, no castasterone-glucoside formation was detectable in yeast expressing the barley HvUGT13248 gene. This barley UGT is therefore a promising candidate for transgenic approaches aiming to increase DON and Fusarium resistance of crop plants without undesired collateral effects.
Oxidative stress has been implicated as an important contributing factor in the pathogenesis of several pulmonary inflammatory diseases. Previous studies have indicated a relationship between oxidative stress and the attenuation of epithelial tight junctions (TJs). In Human Bronchial Epithelial-16 cells (16HBE), we demonstrated the degradation of zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), and claudin-2 exhibited a great dependence on the activation of the transient receptor potential melastatin (TRPM) 2 channel, phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1) and the protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha) signaling cascade.
Collagen-like proteins in the bacteria Streptococcus pyogenes adopt a triple-helix structure with a thermal stability similar to that of animal collagens, can be expressed in high yield in Escherichia coli and can be easily modified through molecular biology techniques. However, potential applications for such recombinant collagens are limited by their lack of higher order structure to achieve the physical properties needed for most biomaterials. To overcome this problem, the S. pyogenes collagen domain was fused to a repetitive Bombyx mori silk consensus sequence, as a strategy to direct specific non-covalent binding onto solid silk materials whose superior stability, mechanical and material properties have been previously established. This approach resulted in the successful binding of these new collagen-silk chimeric proteins to silk films and porous scaffolds, and the binding affinity could be controlled by varying the number of repeats in the silk sequence. To explore the potential of collagen-silk chimera for regulating biological activity, integrin (Int) and fibronectin (Fn) binding sequences from mammalian collagens were introduced into the bacterial collagen domain. The attachment of bioactive collagen-silk chimeras to solid silk biomaterials promoted hMSC spreading and proliferation substantially in comparison to the controls. The ability to combine the biomaterial features of silk with the biological activities of collagen allowed more rapid cell interactions with silk-based biomaterials, improved regulation of stem cell growth and differentiation, as well as the formation of artificial extracellular matrices useful for tissue engineering applications.
Dental Unit Water Systems (DUWS) are used in dental practices to provide water for cooling of dental equipment and irrigation of the oral cavity. However, they have been demonstrated to be contaminated with micro-organisms. There are currently no European Union (EU) Commission guidelines for the microbial quality of water discharged by DUWS. This study was part of an EU research programme to investigate the microbial contamination of DUWS in general dental practice (GDP) in the UK, Denmark, Germany, The Netherlands, Ireland, Greece and Spain. OBJECTIVE: To undertake a questionnaire survey on the type of DUWS in use and determine the attitude of GDPs to the risk of microbial infection from DUWS. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The questionnaire was written and translated into the language of each country before being posted to each participating dentist. Dentists were asked to complete the questionnaire survey and return it by post. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The major findings were that the majority of dentists did not clean, disinfect or determine the microbial load of their DUWS, and that dentists would welcome regular monitoring and advice on maintaining their DUWS; the introduction of guidelines; and recommendations on controlling the microbial load of DUWS.
Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a relatively common life-threatening cardiovascular condition associated with significant morbidity and mortality. We present the efficacy and safety data of weight-adjusted tenecteplase in 30 consecutive patients of acute PE. 30 patients (22 male, 8 female) with acute PE were included in the study and divided into three groups: (1) Acute PE complicated by shock stage and/or persistent hypotension (12 patients). (2) RV dilatation and/or dysfunction without hypotension (14 patients). (3) Severe hypoxemia without hypotension and RV dysfunction (4 patients). Predominant symptoms were dyspnoea, cough, chest pain, syncope and haemoptysis, noted in 100% (30), 40% (12), 54% (16), 32% (9) and 10% (3) of patients respectively. RV dilatation and dyskinesia were present in 86%, septal paradoxical movement in 73% and inferior venacava collapse absent in 53% of patients respectively. 12 patients presented with acute PE and cardiogenic shock, 14 patients showed RV dilatation and dysfunction with systolic BP >90 mmHg and four patients were having RV dilation without dysfunction but severe hypoxemia. There was significant reduction in right ventricular systolic pressure and improvement in right ventricular dysfunction. Our study shows that tenecteplase is very effective and safe in the treatment of PE with minimal risk of bleeding in high risk group and intermediate risk and even in selective low risk category group of patients. However, in view of small number of patients in study group, a large multicentre randomized study would be required to draw a firm conclusion regarding the thrombolysis in low risk category patient.
AIM: To determine whether image analysis of ploidy status and immunohistochemical analysis of p57KIP2 (a paternally imprinted, maternally expressed gene) can be used to refine the diagnosis of molar pregnancy. METHODS AND RESULTS: The original histological diagnosis in 40 randomly selected cases of hydatidiform mole was reviewed and confirmed in 38 cases (22 complete moles, 16 partial moles). These cases were anonymized and submitted for further analysis. Tissue from each case was submitted for flow cytometric assessment of DNA ploidy using a FACSort flow cytometer and for automated image cytometric assessment using a novel digital imaging system. Tissue sections from each case were immunostained with a monoclonal mouse antibody to p57KIP2. Correlations between the histopathological diagnosis, image cytometry, flow cytometry and p57KIP2 immunohistochemistry were determined using kappa statistics. The concordance between histological diagnosis and p57KIP2 was very good (kappa = 0.89). Twenty of the 22 (90.9%) complete moles showed no immunoreactivity for p57KIP2. The remaining two cases showed nuclear immunoreactivity in villous cytotrophoblast. In one of these, the pattern of staining resembled that of a partial mole. In the other, the staining pattern supported the diagnosis of a twin molar/non-molar pregnancy. All 16 partial moles were p57KIP2 immunoreactive. On flow cytometry, all 22 complete moles were diploid and 12/16 partial moles were triploid (the remaining four cases originally diagnosed as partial moles were found to be diploid). On image cytometry, one case originally diagnosed as complete mole was found to contain a triploid population. Thus, by using a combination of image cytometry and p57KIP2 status we were able to refine the diagnosis of molar pregnancy in five (13%) of the cases studied. CONCLUSIONS: Automated image cytometry is a readily performed investigation which is comparable to, but more sensitive than, flow cytometry. Complementary use of ploidy analysis and p57KIP2 status can now help to distinguish a diploid hydropic miscarriage (p57KIP2-positive), diploid complete mole (p57KIP2-negative) and triploid partial mole (p57KIP2-positive).
Advances in experimental tools have allowed for the systematic identification of components and biological processes as well as quantification of their activities over time. Together with computational analysis, these measurement and perturbation technologies have given rise to the field of systems biology, which seeks to discover, analyze and model the interactions of physical components in a biological system. Although in its infancy, recent application of this approach has resulted in novel insights into the machinery that regulates and modifies innate immune cell functions. Here, we summarize contributions that have been made through the unbiased interrogation of the mammalian innate immune system, emphasizing the importance of integrating orthogonal datasets into models. To enable application of approaches more broadly, however, a concerted effort across the immunology community to develop reagent and tool platforms will be required.
Interleukin 6 (IL-6) is a protein secreted by T cells and macrophages and plays an important role in immune response. IL-6 regulates the proliferation and differentiation of T cells, and elicits immunoglobulin production in B cells. In this study, the cDNA il-6 (gil-6) sequence of the orange spotted grouper (Epinephelus coioides) was obtained. The deduced IL-6 (gIL-6) protein comprised 223 amino acids, the sequence shared approximately 30% similarity with mammalian IL-6, and between 47% and 69% similarity with other available teleost IL-6. The protein comprises the signal peptide, the IL-6 family signature, and conserved amino acid residues found in IL-6 sequences of other teleost. In order to understand the bioactivity and influence of gIL-6 on humoral immune response, recombinant gIL-6 (rgIL-6) synthesized by prokaryotes was injected into orange spotted groupers, and the immune-related gene expression at various times in various organs was observed. Our results revealed that the Th1 specific transcription factor t-bet was down-regulated and Th2 specific transcription factors gata3, and c-maf were up-regulated in immune organs, following IL-6 stimulation. Additionally, higher levels of igm mRNA and translated protein were detected in rgIL-6 stimulated fish. These results indicate that IL-6 in groupers regulates the differentiation of nasmall yi, Ukrainianve T helper cells into Th2 cells and elicits the production of antibodies.
The present article argues that evaluative research in audiologic rehabilitation should be consistent with contemporary conceptual frameworks of rehabilitation. Moreover, comprehensive evaluative research investigations should include an evaluation of (1) the process of intervention and (2) the impacts and consequences of the intervention program. An approach to rehabilitation based on the principle that intervention should be viewed as a solution-centered problem-solving process is outlined. Then, three illustrative cases are described and compared from the perspective of traditional evaluative research paradigms and from the perspective that audiologic rehabilitation is a solution-centered problem-solving process. Some shortcomings of traditional approaches to evaluative research are discussed. Finally, some guidelines that could lead to the development of comprehensive evaluative research in rehabilitation are outlined.
PTEN is a lipid phosphatase, and PTEN mutations are associated with gliomas, macrocephaly, and mental deficiencies. We have used PTEN +/- mice to assess PTEN's role in subventricular zone (SVZ) precursor cells. For cultured SVZ neurosphere cells, haploinsufficiency for PTEN increases phosphorylation of Akt and forkhead transcription factor and slightly enhances proliferation. Based on a filter penetration assay, PTEN +/- cells are substantially more migratory and invasive than +/+ cells. The +/- cells also are more resistant to H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis. Analysis of PTEN +/- and +/+ mice by BrdU labeling reveals no difference in the rate of cell proliferation in the SVZ. Exit of BrdU-labeled cells from the SVZ and radial migration to the outer layers of the olfactory bulb are more rapid for +/- cells. These observations indicate that PTEN regulates SVZ precursor cell function and is particularly important for migration and apoptosis in response to oxidative stress.
In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, recombination events occurring between allelic genes located on homologous chromosomes are often associated with heteroduplex formation. We found that recombination events between repeated genes on nonhomologous chromosomes (ectopic events) are also associated with the formation of heteroduplexes, indicating that classical and ectopic recombination events involve similar mechanisms.
Mice in which lung epithelial cells can be induced to express an oncogenic Kras(G12D) develop lung adenocarcinomas in a manner analogous to humans. A myriad of genetic changes accompany lung adenocarcinomas, many of which are poorly understood. To get a comprehensive understanding of both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional changes that accompany lung adenocarcinomas, we took an omics approach in profiling both the coding genes and the non-coding small RNAs in an induced mouse model of lung adenocarcinoma. RNAseq transcriptome analysis of Kras(G12D) tumors from F1 hybrid mice revealed features specific to tumor samples. This includes the repression of a network of GTPase-related genes (Prkg1, Gnao1 and Rgs9) in tumor samples and an enrichment of Apobec1-mediated cytosine to uridine RNA editing. Furthermore, analysis of known single-nucleotide polymorphisms revealed not only a change in expression of Cd22 but also that its expression became allele specific in tumors. The most salient finding, however, came from small RNA sequencing of the tumor samples, which revealed that a cluster of approximately 53 microRNAs and mRNAs at the Dlk1-Dio3 locus on mouse chromosome 12qF1 was markedly and consistently increased in tumors. Activation of this locus occurred specifically in sorted tumor-originating cancer cells. Interestingly, the 12qF1 RNAs were repressed in cultured Kras(G12D) tumor cells but reactivated when transplanted in vivo. These microRNAs have been implicated in stem cell pleuripotency and proteins targeted by these microRNAs are involved in key pathways in cancer as well as embryogenesis. Taken together, our results strongly imply that these microRNAs represent key targets in unraveling the mechanism of lung oncogenesis.
Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE) kills mammalian cells in a complex process that involves cell surface binding, internalization by endocytosis, translocation to the cytosol, and ADP-ribosylation of elongation factor 2. PE is a three-domain protein in which domain I binds to the cell surface, domain II promotes translocation into the cytosol, and domain III carries out ADP-ribosylation. To determine how translocation occurs, we have mutated all the arginine residues in domain II and found that mutations at positions 276 and 279 greatly diminished the cytotoxicity of PE and mutations 330 and 337 substantially reduced cytotoxicity. Biochemical studies indicate that after internalization into an endocytic compartment, the PE molecule undergoes a specific and saturable intracellular interaction, and this interaction is deficient in an Arg276----Gly mutant. Our data suggest that the translocation process of PE involves a specific interaction of Arg276 (and possibly Arg279, Arg330, and Arg337) with components of an intracellular compartment.
Chitinase I (CHI1) of Bacillus circulans KA-304 forms protoplasts from Schizophyllum commune mycelia when the enzyme is combined with alpha-1,3-glucanase of B. circulans KA-304. CHI1 consists of an N-terminal unknown region and a C-terminal catalytic region classified into the glycoside hydrolase family-19 type. An N-terminal region-truncated mutant of CHI 1 (CatCHI1), which was expressed in Escherichia coli Rosetta-gami B (DE3), lost colloidal chitin- and powder chitin-binding activities. The colloidal chitin- and the powder chitin-hydrolyzing activities of CatCHI1 were lower than those of CHI1, and CatCHI1 was not effective in forming the protoplast. A fusion protein of the N-terminal region of CHI1 and green fluorescent protein (Nterm-GFP) was expressed in E. coli, and the fusion protein was adsorbed to colloidal chitin, powder chitin, and chitosan. Fluorescence microscopy analysis showed that Nterm-GFP bound to the S. commune cell-wall.
BACKGROUND: In 2008, the melamine-tainted-milk incident started with reports of increased incidence of urolithiasis in infants in China. Affected children were screened for urolithiasis. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to analyze sonographic characterization of infant melamine-induced urolithiasis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Transabdominal US examination was done in 603 infants with melamine-induced calculi. The imaging characteristics of calculi and hydronephrosis were analyzed. Follow-up US imaging was performed. RESULTS: Comet-tail sign was seen behind the calculus of <4 mm. Calculi of >/= 4 mm were found in 299 inpatients with clear posterior border and with or without light shadowing. Solitary and multiple stones had similar incidence. Incidence of calculi in the inferior renal calyx was the highest (55.2%) in inpatients. Calculus size in inpatients age 2-3 years was smaller than that of children younger than 2 years old (P < 0.05). Inpatients age 2-3 years had the highest incidence rate (48.0%) of hydronephrosis. CONCLUSION: Calculi of <4 mm manifested as hyperechoic foci near the renal papillae, while calculi of >/= 4 mm usually manifested as echogenic foci with visible inferior edge in the renal calyx. Hydronephrosis was a common imaging finding in inpatients ages 2-3 years.
BACKGROUND: Pigmented neoplasms are extremely rare in the pancreas, and, when black pigment is identified, it often suggests the diagnosis of metastatic melanoma. The authors describe two patients with pigmented "black" neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas. One patient had an incidental (0.5 cm) finding, and the second patient had a well-demarcated, 4.5-cm mass identified by computerized tomography that was consistent with an islet cell tumor. METHODS: The two neoplasms were resected surgically and studied by light microscopy using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), Fontana-Masson, and iron stains. The neoplasms were examined immunohistochemically, and ultrastructural analysis was performed. RESULTS: H&E stains revealed nests of well-differentiated cells with small, round, centrally placed nuclei. The cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells was pink and granular and contained abundant brown-black pigment. Angiolymphatic and perineural invasion were identified in the larger neoplasm. Both neoplasms demonstrated a positive reaction with a Fontana-Masson stain, which was susceptible to bleaching, and a negative reaction to an iron stain. Immunohistochemical stains showed that neoplastic cells expressed chromogranin and synaptophysin but did not express HMB-45, S-100 protein, glucagon, or insulin. Ultrastructural examination revealed regular neurosecretory granules (100-150 nm) and large, irregularly shaped, electron-dense granules with small lipid inclusions consistent with lipofuscin. CONCLUSIONS: These pigmented pancreatic neoplasms are similar histologically and radiographically to the "black adenoma" of the adrenal gland. It is important to recognize these tumors, because they may mimic metastatic melanoma.
The osteocyte network is recognized as the major mechanical sensor in the bone remodeling process, and osteocyte-osteoblast communication acts as an important mediator in the coordination of bone formation and turnover. In this study, we developed a novel 3D trabecular bone explant co-culture model that allows live osteocytes situated in their native extracellular matrix environment to be interconnected with seeded osteoblasts on the bone surface. Using a low-level medium perfusion system, the viability of in situ osteocytes in bone explants was maintained for up to 4 weeks, and functional gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC) was successfully established between osteocytes and seeded primary osteoblasts. Using this novel co-culture model, the effects of dynamic deformational loading, GJIC, and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) release on functional bone adaptation were further investigated. The results showed that dynamical deformational loading can significantly increase the PGE(2) release by bone cells, bone formation, and the apparent elastic modulus of bone explants. However, the inhibition of gap junctions or the PGE(2) pathway dramatically attenuated the effects of mechanical loading. This 3D trabecular bone explant co-culture model has great potential to fill in the critical gap in knowledge regarding the role of osteocytes as a mechano-sensor and how osteocytes transmit signals to regulate osteoblasts function and skeletal integrity as reflected in its mechanical properties.
According to the coping styles hypothesis, an individual demonstrates an integrated behavioural and physiological response to environmental challenge that is consistent over time and across situations. Individual consistency in behavioural responses to challenge has been documented across the animal kingdom. Comparatively few studies, however, have examined inter-individual variation in the physiological response, namely glucocorticoid and catecholamine levels, the stress hormones secreted by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and the sympathetic nervous system, respectively. Variation in coping styles between individuals may be explained in part by differences in social rank and sex. Using 20 Yucatan minipigs (Sus scrofa) we: (1) investigated the existence of consistent inter-individual variation in exploratory behaviour and the hormonal stress response, and tested for correlations as predicted by the coping styles hypothesis; and (2) evaluated whether inter-individual behavioural and hormonal variation is related to social rank and sex. Salivary stress biomarkers (cortisol, alpha-amylase, chromogranin A) were assessed in the presence and absence of a stressor consisting of social isolation in a crate for 10 min. Principal components analysis on a set of behavioural variables revealed two traits, which we labelled exploratory tendency and neophobia. Neither exploratory tendency nor neophobia predicted the physiological stress response. Subordinate pigs exhibited higher catecholamine levels compared to dominant conspecifics. We observed sex differences in the repeatability of salivary stress markers and reactivity of the stress systems. The results do not provide support for the existence of behavioural-physiological coping styles in pigs. Sex is an important determinant of the physiological stress response and warrants consideration in research addressing behavioural and hormonal variation.
OBJECTIVES: The majority of anthropological studies on dermatoglyphics examine the heritability and inter-population variation of Level 1 detail (e.g., pattern type, total ridge count), while forensic scientists concentrate on individual uniqueness of Level 2 and 3 detail (e.g., minutiae and pores, respectively) used for positive identification. The present study bridges the gap between researcher-practitioner by examining sex, ancestral, and pattern type variation of Level 2 detail (e.g., minutiae). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Bifurcations, ending ridges, short ridges, dots, and enclosures on the right index finger of 243 individuals (n = 61 African American female symbol; n = 61 African American male symbol; n = 61 European American female symbol; n = 60 European American male symbol) were analyzed. The overall effect of sex, ancestry, and pattern type on minutiae variation was assessed using a MANCOVA. ANOVA was used to identify Level 2 detail variables responsible for the variation. Logistic regression was used to classify individuals into groups. RESULTS: The effect of sex is insignificant. Ancestry is significant (Wilks' lambda = 0.053 F value = 2.98, DF = 4,224, P value = 0.02), as is pattern type (Wilks' lambda = 0.874 F value = 2.57, DF = 12,592.94, P value = 0.003). The ANOVA reveals that bifurcations are responsible for the variation between ancestral groups, while bifurcations and ending ridges vary between patterns. Logistic regression results suggest that total bifurcations can predict the ancestry of an individual (ChiSq = 6.55, df = 1, Prob > ChiSq = 0.01). DISCUSSION: Significant minutiae variation between ancestral groups yields information that is valuable in both a forensic and anthropological setting. Am J Phys Anthropol 160:625-632, 2016. (c) 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Oxygen-depleted hypoxic regions in the tumour are generally resistant to therapies. Although nanocarriers have been used to deliver drugs, the targeting ratios have been very low. Here, we show that the magneto-aerotactic migration behaviour of magnetotactic bacteria, Magnetococcus marinus strain MC-1 (ref. 4), can be used to transport drug-loaded nanoliposomes into hypoxic regions of the tumour. In their natural environment, MC-1 cells, each containing a chain of magnetic iron-oxide nanocrystals, tend to swim along local magnetic field lines and towards low oxygen concentrations based on a two-state aerotactic sensing system. We show that when MC-1 cells bearing covalently bound drug-containing nanoliposomes were injected near the tumour in severe combined immunodeficient beige mice and magnetically guided, up to 55% of MC-1 cells penetrated into hypoxic regions of HCT116 colorectal xenografts. Approximately 70 drug-loaded nanoliposomes were attached to each MC-1 cell. Our results suggest that harnessing swarms of microorganisms exhibiting magneto-aerotactic behaviour can significantly improve the therapeutic index of various nanocarriers in tumour hypoxic regions.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the wound healing rate and incidence of infection in wounds treated with either a bioactive dressing (containing hydrophilic mucopolysaccharide, chitosan) or conservative treatment (gauze). METHOD: Eighty-five patients with diabetic foot ulcers, pressure ulcers or leg ulcers were randomised to receive either the bioactive study dressing (n=33 patients, 45 wounds) or the control dressing (n=52 patients, 53 wounds) for 21 days. Wound size, stage where appropriate and the presence of infection were recorded at each dressing change. Thirty-one of these 85 patients dropped out of the study during the three-month post-treatment follow-up, when wound size and grade were assessed on a monthly basis. Data were therefore analysed on 54 patients, of whom 32 (34 wounds) were in the treatment group and 22 (26 wounds) in the control group. RESULTS: In the control group, four pressure ulcers healed, but the remaining wounds all deteriorated and became infected, requiring antibiotics. In contrast, in the treatment group 29/34 wounds healed completely, and none became infected; the remaining five wounds healed during the follow-up period. The difference between the two groups in the number of wounds that healed was statistically significant (p<0.001), as was that for the number of healed pressure ulcers p<0.05. CONCLUSION: Use of a moist bioactive wound dressing significantly increased the healing rate when compared with the traditional dressings used in the participating hospitals. This will in turn bring significant cost savings.
An aquareovirus was isolated from several fish species in the USA (including healthy golden shiners) that is not closely related to members of species Aquareovirus A, B and C. The virus, which is atypical (does not cause syncytia in cell cultures at neutral pH), was implicated in a winter die-off of grass carp fingerlings and has therefore been called 'American grass carp reovirus' (AGCRV). Complete nucleotide sequence analysis of the AGCRV genome and comparisons to the other aquareoviruses showed that it is closely related to golden ide reovirus (GIRV) (>92% amino acid [aa] identity in VP5(NTPase) and VP2(Pol)). However, comparisons with grass carp reovirus (Aquareovirus C) and chum salmon reovirus (Aquareovirus A) showed only 22% to 76% aa identity in different viral proteins. These findings have formed the basis for the recognition of AGCRV and GIRV as members of a new Aquareovirus species 'Aquareovirus G' by ICTV. Further sequence comparisons to other members of the family Reoviridae suggest that there has been an 'evolutionary jump,' involving a change in the number of genome segments, between the aquareoviruses (11 segments) and coltiviruses (12 segments). Segment 7 of AGRCV encodes two proteins, from two distinct ORFs, which are homologues of two Coltivirus proteins encoded by genome segments 9 and 12. A similar model has previously been reported for the rotaviruses and seadornaviruses.
Management of painful peripheral neuropathies remains challenging, since patients with chronic pain respond poorly to the available pharmacopeia. In recent years, the G-protein-coupled receptor neurotensin (NT) type 2 (NTS2) emerged as an attractive target for treating transitory pain states. To date, however, there is no evidence for its role in the regulation of chronic peripheral neuropathies. Here, we found that NTS2 receptors were largely localized to primary afferent fibers and superficial dorsal horns. Changes in the time course of the gene expression profile of NT, NTS1, and NTS2 were observed over a 28-d period following the sciatic nerve constriction [chronic constriction injury (CCI) model]. We next determined the effects of central delivery of selective-NTS2 agonists to CCI-treated rats on both mechanical allodynia (evoked withdrawal responses) and weight-bearing deficits (discomfort and quality-of-life proxies). The NTS2 analogs JMV431, levocabastine, and beta-lactotensin were all effective in reducing ongoing tactile allodynia in CCI-treated rats. Likewise, amitriptyline, pregabalin, and morphine significantly attenuated CCI-induced mechanical hypersensitivity. NTS2 agonists were also efficient in reversing weight-bearing and postural deficits caused by nerve damage, unlike reference analgesics currently used in the clinic. Thus, NTS2 agonists may offer new treatment avenues for limiting pain associated with peripheral neuropathies and improve functional rehabilitation and well-being.
BACKGROUND: Painful hip following hip dislocation or acetabular fracture can be an important signal for early degeneration and progression to osteoarthritis due to intraarticular pathology. However, there is limited literature discussing the use of arthroscopy for the treatment of painful hip. The purpose of this retrospective study was to analyze the effectiveness and benefit of arthroscopic treatment for patients with a painful hip after major trauma. METHODS: From July 2003 to February 2013, we reviewed 13 patients who underwent arthroscopic treatment after acetabular fracture or hip dislocation and were followed up for a minimum of 2 postoperative years. The degree of osteoarthritis based on the Tonnis classification pre- and postoperatively at final follow-up was determined. Clinical outcomes were evaluated using visual analogue scale for pain (VAS) and modified Harris hip score (MHHS), and range of motion (ROM) of the hip pre- and postoperatively at final follow-up. RESULTS: There were nine male and four female patients with a mean age at surgery of 28 years (range, 20 to 50 years). The mean follow-up period of the patients was 59.8 months (range, 24 to 115 months), and the mean interval between initial trauma and arthroscopic treatment was 40.8 months (range, 1 to 144 months). At the final follow-up, VAS and MHHS improved significantly from 6.3 and 53.4 to 3.0 and 88.3, respectively (p = 0.002 and p < 0.001, respectively). However, there were no significant differences in hip flexion, abduction, adduction, external rotation, and internal rotation as minor improvements from 113.1 degrees , 38.5 degrees , 28.5 degrees , 36.5 degrees , and 22.7 degrees to 118.5 degrees , 39.0 degrees , 29.2 degrees , 38.9 degrees , and 26.5 degrees were observed, respectively (p = 0.070, p = 0.414, p = 0.317, p = 0.084, and p = 0.136, respectively). None of the patients exhibited progression of osteoarthritis of the hip at the final follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: Arthroscopic treatment after acetabular fracture or hip dislocation is effective and delays the progression of traumatic osteoarthritis.
Adsorption of the plasma protein fibrinogen onto electrically polarized 316L stainless steel was observed and quantified using both in situ and ex situ atomic force microscopy (AFM) techniques. Significant differences in fibrinogen adsorption were observed across voltages. Ex situ studies showed significantly lower area coverage (theta) and height of adsorbed Fb on cathodically polarized surfaces when compared to anodically polarized surfaces. Conformational differences in the protein may explain the distinctions in Fb surface area coverage (theta) and height between the anodic and cathodic cases. In situ studies showed significantly slower kinetics of Fb adsorption onto surfaces below -100 mV (vs. Ag/AgCl) compared to surfaces polarized above -100 mV. Electrochemical current density data showed large charge transfer processes (approximately 1 x 10(-5) to 1 x 10(-4) A/cm(2)) taking place on the 316L SS surfaces at voltages below -100 mV (vs. Ag/AgCl). These relatively large current densities point to flux of ionic species away from the surface as a major source of the reduction in adsorption kinetics rather than just hydrophilic or electrostatic effects.
OBJECTIVE: To substantiate the reasonability and duration of angiographic follow-up of patients operated on for cerebral aneurysms to rule out de novo aneurysm formation. MATERIAL AND METHODS: The results of angiographic examination (cerebral angiography and SCT angiography) of 43 patients with cerebral aneurysms operated on at the Burdenko Neurosurgical Institute in 1995-2012 are analyzed. The follow-up duration varied from 1 to 14 years after surgery (mean duration, 5 years). Patients' age ranged from 14 to 56 years. RESULTS: Control angiographic examination showed that de novo aneurysms were formed in 7 (16.2%) patients. A total of 8 de novo aneurysms were detected (in one case there were two aneurysms formed). All aneurysms, both the previously operated and the de novo ones, were located in the anterior part of the circle of Willis. De novo aneurysms were clipped in 5 cases; the cavity of the de novo aneurysm was occluded with spirals in one case. One patient with a small aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery refused surgery. Neither lethal nor unfavorable outcomes were recorded. CONCLUSIONS: The patient groups with the high risk of de novo aneurysm formation are as follows: 1) young smokers with hypertension; 2) patients who developed clinical signs of the disease when being young; 3) patients subjected to proximal exclusion of the main artery; and 4) patients with multiple and familial forms of the pathology. Dynamic angiographic follow-up (SCT angiography or magnetic resonance angiography) for 1-3 years is recommended for these patients.
Camel erythrocytes were suitable for haemagglutination (HA) and HA inhibition (HI) tests using four isolates of avian paramyxovirus type 1. The results were similar to those obtained with chicken erythrocytes.
PURPOSE: The aim of these studies was to evaluate the biologic response of fetal dural cell cultures to compressive mechanical force. METHODS: Primary cell cultures from the dura mater of E18 CD-1 mice were subjected to 2 PSI of intermittent hydrostatic compression (IHC) at a frequency of 0.5 Hz. Quantitative measures of the expression of Osterix (Osx), osteopontin (OP), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and Noggin were performed by RT-PCR following 3, 6, and 12 hours of exposure to IHC. Nitric oxide production was quantified through the measurement of NO metabolites following 6 hours of exposure to IHC. RESULTS: IHC resulted in an increase in Osx, OP, and eNOS expression compared with controls at all time points. The expression of Noggin decreased at all time points. Exposure to IHC resulted in a significant increase in the production of NO metabolites at 6 hours when compared with controls. CONCLUSIONS: These experiments indicate that dural cell biology is significantly altered following exposure to IHC. Specifically, IHC promotes production of NO and osteodifferentiation in fetal dural cell cultures, with increases in the expression of osteoinductive genes and decreases in inhibitors of osteogenesis.
With the rapid growth in the field of pediatric sleep medicine, health care providers need to be aware of several emerging legal issues that have the potential of impacting their clinical practice. This article provides an overview of emerging legal areas that might impact the practice of pediatric sleep medicine, and discusses civil liability emerging from medical malpractice, issues that health care providers must be aware of including issues related to providing care for minors, and newer areas that relate to legal prosecution for health care fraud as it may relate to violations of quality of care.
MiR-137 expression was examined in parental and drug-resistant cell lines, H446 and H446/CDDP, of small lung cancer (SCLC), and the results showed there was fewer miR-137 expressed in H446/CDDP cells followed by KIT expression emergence. In order to confirm physiological function of these abnormal expressions, H446 and H446/CDDP cells were transfected with miR-137 inhibitor and miR-137 mimics, respectively, after that, miR-137 and KIT expression in two cell lines and drug sensitivity of these cells were evaluated. Results indicated that sensitivity of H446 cells to cisplatin significantly decreased after transfected with miR-137 inhibitor, while miR-137 mimics transfection increased drug sensitivity of H446/CDDP cells and deregulated KIT expression. Our data provided combined evidence that miR-137 was closely related to MDR of SCLC, and interfering of miR-137 expression may attenuate drug resistant of H446/CDDP cells to cisplatin partially through KIT expression regulation. Besides, it has also been proved that KIT might be only one of the downstream molecules of miR-137 that related to SCLC MDR.
OBJECTIVE: To assess patients' acceptability of switching etanercept from the prefilled syringe to the autoinjection pen in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis patients. METHODS: A two-phase cross-sectional study was designed. First phase: consisted of a 2 h information/education session to present the pen and learning its use. At the end of the session, patients completed a self-administered questionnaire regarding the meeting usefulness. Second phase: eight single-use prefilled Enbrel(R) Pen Myclic were provided. RESULTS: The number of patients included were 104 (rheumatoid arthritis 58, psoriatic arthritis 31, ankylosing spondylitis 15). Attendees showed a high satisfaction degree with the meeting. A high percentage of patients (74.4 - 95.1%) rated the items of the questionnaire as 'very much'. Patients reported > 95% adherence to etanercept autoinjection pen. The percentage of patients self-administering etanercept increased from 66 to 94% and the percentage of those attending primary care for injection decreased from 23 to 2%. It produced important cost savings, in our study represents > 22.000 euros/year. Pain at the injection site was significantly reduced with the use of autoinjection pen. Ninty seven (93%) patients considered that the use of the autoinjection pen was easier than the syringe and 94.2% chose the pen as their preferred delivery system. CONCLUSIONS: The autoinjection pen is an advantageous delivery option for etanercept. This study provides further evidence to support that the education strategy is a valid method for switching anti-TNF-alpha drugs from syringe to pen in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis.
Our primary objective was to determine whether administering the viscous and fermentable polysaccharide PolyGlycopleX (PGX) with metformin (MET) or sitagliptin/metformin (S/MET) reduces hyperglycemia in Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats more so than monotherapy of each. Glucose tolerance, adiposity, satiety hormones and mechanisms related to dipeptidyl peptidase 4 activity, gut microbiota and, hepatic and pancreatic histology were examined. Male ZDF rats (9-10 weeks of age) were randomized to: i) cellulose/vehicle (control, C); ii) PGX (5% wt/wt)/vehicle (PGX); iii) cellulose/metformin (200 mg/kg) (MET); iv) cellulose/S/MET (10 mg/kg+200 mg/kg) (S/MET); v) PGX (5%)+MET (200 mg/kg) (PGX+MET); vi) cellulose/sitagliptin/MET (5%)+(10 mg/kg+200 mg/kg) (PGX+S/MET) for 6 weeks. PGX+MET and PGX+S/MET reduced glycemia compared with C and singular treatments (P=0.001). Weekly fasted and fed blood glucose levels were lower in PGX+MET and PGX+S/MET compared with all other groups at weeks 4, 5, and 6 (P=0.001). HbA1c was lower in PGX+S/MET than C, MET, S/MET, and PGX at week 6 (P=0.001). Fat mass was lower and GLP1 was higher in PGX+S/MET compared with all other groups (P=0.001). beta-cell mass was highest and islet degeneration lowest in PGX+S/MET. Hepatic lipidosis was significantly lower in PGX+S/MET compared with PGX or S/MET alone. When combined with PGX, both MET and S/MET markedly reduce glycemia; however, PGX+S/MET appears advantageous over PGX+MET in terms of increased beta-cell mass and reduced adiposity. Both combination treatments attenuated diabetes in the obese Zucker rat.
There is a commonly held perception that Helicobacter pylori related diseases are declining, however these are still associated with a high risk of morbidity and mortality. In recent years worrying themes have emerged such as increasing levels of antibiotic resistance and falling cure rates which illustrate there is no room for complacency with respect to H. pylori. In addition there are many significant issues which have not been elucidated regarding the role played by H. pylori in very serious pathologies such as gastric and esophageal cancer and other more benign disorders common in the developed world such as gastroesophageal reflux disease, functional dyspepsia and perhaps obesity which carry a significant impact both economically and as regards to symptoms. Future guidelines aimed at European practitioners and patients will need to address the questions raised by these issues as well as the more familiar areas such as constituents and duration of therapy.
BACKGROUND: Although life expectancy estimation is vital to decision making for localized prostate cancer, there are few, if any, valid and usable tools. Our goal was to create and validate a prediction model for other cause mortality in localized prostate cancer patients that could aid clinician's initial treatment decisions at the point of care. METHODS: We combined an adjusted Social Security Administration table with a subset of comorbidities from a UK actuarial life expectancy model. Life tables were adjusted on the basis of survival data from a cohort of almost 10,000 radical prostatectomy patients treated at four major US academic institutions. Comorbidity-specific odds ratios were calculated and incorporated with baseline risk of mortality. We externally validated the model on 2898 patients from the Prostate Cancer Outcomes Study, which included men diagnosed with prostate cancer in six SEER cancer registries. These men had sufficient follow-up for our endpoints of 10- and 15-year mortality and also had self-reported comorbidity data. RESULTS: Life expectancy for prostate cancer patients were close to that of a typical US man who was 3 years younger. On external validation, 10- and 15-year concordance indexes were 0.724 and 0.726, respectively. Our model exhibited excellent calibration. Taking into account differences between how comorbidities are used in the model versus how they were recorded in the validation cohort, calibration would improve for most patients, but there would be overestimation of the risk of death in the oldest and sickest patients. CONCLUSIONS: We successfully created and externally validated a new life expectancy prediction model that, while imperfect, has clear advantages to any alternative. We urge consideration of its use in counseling patients with localized prostate cancer.
BACKGROUND: The data that the p16INK4A gene is frequently inactivated in Burkitt lymphoma (BL) and that this event often accompanies the inactivation of p14ARF in several tumours prompted us to examine the genetic and methylation status of both genes in BL and B-lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). MATERIALS AND METHODS: The existence of gene deletion, mutation and promoter methylation was investigated by single-strand conformational polymorphism, direct sequencing and methylation-specific PCR (MSP) analysis, respectively. RESULTS: Sequencing of each exon of both tumour suppressor genes revealed p16INK4A mutation only in 3 out of 11 BL, but 1 of them also affected the p14ARF gene. MSP analysis of promoters showed p16INK4A to be methylated and p14ARF not to be methylated in each Epstein-Barr virus-positive BL cell line. Primary B-cells and de novo established LCLs had no genetic changes or methylated promoter of either gene. LCLs achieving the stage of immortalization usually showed methylation of both p16INK4A and p14ARF promoters. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that, in contrast to p161NK4A, inactivation of p14ARF by either genetic change or promoter methylation has no importance in the development of BL cell lines, while its methylation has a central role in the immortalization of LCLs.
Rheological properties of living cells determine how cells interact with their mechanical microenvironment and influence their physiological functions. Numerous experimental studies have show that mechanical contractile stress borne by the cytoskeleton and weak power-law viscoelasticity are governing principles of cell rheology, and that the controlling physics is at the level of integrative cytoskeletal lattice properties. Based on these observations, two concepts have emerged as leading models of cytoskeletal mechanics. One is the tensegrity model, which explains the role of the contractile stress in cytoskeletal mechanics, and the other is the soft glass rheology model, which explains the weak power-law viscoelasticity of cells. While these two models are conceptually disparate, the phenomena that they describe are often closely associated in living cells for reasons that are largely unknown. In this review, we discuss current understanding of cell rheology by emphasizing the underlying biophysical mechanism and critically evaluating the existing rheological models.
Compared to young patients with Takayasu's arteritis (TA), little information about elderly patients with TA has been reported. Additionally, no reports were found regarding TA cases with complications of intestinal amyloidosis. This is a case report of an elderly female, who developed intestinal amyloidosis, during late-stage TA. After years of outpatient management, she developed sudden severe dyspnea with pulmonary effusion, requiring hospitalization. After this event, betamethasone was replaced by methotrexate (MTX) for the next 34 months, but it seemed ineffective. After 1.5 years, she developed intractable diarrhea, followed by increases in BUN and serum creatinine (Cr), requiring several courses of hemodialysis. Colonoscopy revealed the presence of amyloid in her intestine, although she died of complicated sepsis caused by MRSA infection. This may be the first paper describing intestinal amyloidosis in a TA patient. Additionally, her case is rare in that she lived more than 30 years after the onset and diagnosis of TA.
One of the most exciting developments in the field of biological physics in recent years is the ability to manipulate single molecules and probe their properties and function. Since its emergence over two decades ago, single molecule force spectroscopy has become a powerful tool to explore the response of biological molecules, including proteins, DNA, RNA and their complexes, to the application of an applied force. The force versus extension response of molecules can provide valuable insight into its mechanical stability, as well as details of the underlying energy landscape. In this review we will introduce the technique of single molecule force spectroscopy using the atomic force microscope (AFM), with particular focus on its application to study proteins. We will review the models which have been developed and employed to extract information from single molecule force spectroscopy experiments. Finally, we will end with a discussion of future directions in this field.
Recombinant DNA techniques for manipulation of genes in Streptomyces are well developed, and currently there is a high level of activity among researchers interested in applying molecular cloning and protoplast fusion techniques to strain development within this commercially important group of bacteria. A number of efficient plasmid and phage vector systems are being used for the molecular cloning of genes, primarily those encoding antibiotic biosynthesis enzymes, but also for a variety of other bioactive proteins and enzymes of known or potential commercial value. In addition, cloning aimed at constructing specialized bioconversion strains for use in the production of chemicals from organic carbon substrates is underway in numerous laboratories. This review discusses the current status of research involving recombinant DNA technologies applied to biotechnological applications using Streptomyces. The topic of potential environmental uses of recombinant Streptomyces is also reviewed, as is the status of current research aimed at assessing the fate and effects of recombinant Streptomyces in the environment. Also summarized is recent research that has confirmed that genetic exchange occurs readily among Streptomyces in the soil environment and which has shown the potential for exchange between recombinant Streptomyces and native soil bacteria.
PURPOSE: To investigate whether mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage, specifically deletion, contributes to the development of atherosclerosis or is simply a secondary effect of the primary factors causing atherosclerosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: mtDNA deletion was detected by PCR in the aortic root of atherosclerosis-prone C57BL/6J apolipoprotein (Apo) E gene deficient (-/-) mice and control C57BL/6J mice at different ages. Atherosclerotic plaques in the Apo E-/- mice were assessed using frozen sections of the aortic root. The protein levels of COX III and 8-oxoguanine glycosylase (OGG1) were determined. RESULTS: while mtDNA deletions accumulated significantly in mice as young as 2- month-old, atherosclerotic plaques were not detected until mice were 6 months old or older, suggesting that mtDNA deletion occurs prior to the formation of atherosclerotic plaques in the aortic root of these mice. Moreover, the expression levels of mtDNA-encoded COX III protein in both 2-month-old and 16-month-old C57BL/6J ApoE-/- mice were significantly lower than those in C57BL/6J mice (p<0.05). Additionally, the protein level of 8-oxoguanine glycosylase (OGG1), a mitochondrial enzyme that functions in DNA excision repair, decreased with age in these mice, indicating that age-related down-regulation of mtDNA excision repair also contributes to atherosclerosis in C57BL/6J ApoE-/- mice. CONCLUSION: These results reveal that mtDNA deletions occur during the early "initiation" stage of atherosclerosis in C57BL/6J ApoE-/- mice and have the potential to promote atherosclerosis.
Exposure of certain strains of mice to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) is known to suppress both local and systemic immune responses, including a reduction in the phagocytic activity of peritoneal macrophages. However, in many instances, the immunological effects have been observed following a single or a limited number of doses of UVR from sources containing a higher proportion of UVB than that emitted by the sun. The first aim of the present study was to establish whether a single exposure of C3H/HeN mice to solar simulated radiation (SSR) suppressed the ability of the peritoneal macrophages to phagocytose opsonised sheep red blood cells. The mice were irradiated with SSR from Cleo Natural lamps and a single dose of 31.9 J cm(-2) was found to be the minimal dose for significant suppression of macrophage phagocytic activity. Such a dose did not modulate the surface expression of I-A(k), CD11b, CD86 or FcgammaRII/III (CD32/16) on the macrophages. The second aim was to assess whether repeated SSR exposures with a dose below the minimal immunosuppressive dose affected macrophage activity and, if so, to test for photoadaptation by repeated exposures followed by a single, normally immunosuppressive dose of SSR, and then assaying the macrophage activity. Groups of mice were irradiated on each of 2, 10 and 30 days with 14.9 J cm(-2) SSR, followed in some instances by a single additional exposure of 31.9 J cm(-2) on the same day as the last irradiation. The phagocytic activity of the peritoneal macrophages was tested 24 h later. It was reduced by 32%, 18% and 4% respectively after 2, 10 and 30 repeated exposures to SSR, and by 39%, 21% and 7% respectively after 2, 10 and 30 repeated exposures plus the additional higher dose at the end. Thus, although the macrophage activity was initially suppressed by the SSR, photoadaptation of this immune parameter occurred following repeated exposures.
The diagnosis and treatment of discogenic back pain is challenging. Provocation discography, an invasive spinal procedure, has been suggested as a diagnostic test for internal disc disruption to provide information on disc morphology and reproduction of symptoms. Current applications consist of the evaluation of persistent spinal pain in individuals, including postoperative patients, as well as providing a guide for patient selection for spinal fusion surgery and minimally invasive interventional pain procedures. While the validity of discography has been questioned by multiple scientific studies, technical refinements have addressed many of the initial limitations. An updated review on the safety and utility of discography will be provided, covering key areas of debate including false-positive rates, technical parameters, clinical utility, and risk of discography procedural-related intervertebral disc damage.
During sleep, changes in brain rhythms and neuromodulator levels in cortex modify the properties of individual neurons and the network as a whole. In principle, network-level interactions during sleep can be studied by observing covariation in spontaneous activity between neurons. Spontaneous activity, however, reflects only a portion of the effective functional connectivity that is activated by external and internal inputs (e.g., sensory stimulation, motor behavior, and mental activity), and it has been shown that neural responses are less correlated during external sensory stimulation than during spontaneous activity. Here, we took advantage of the unique property that the auditory cortex continues to respond to sounds during sleep and used external acoustic stimuli to activate cortical networks for studying neural interactions during sleep. We found that during slow-wave sleep (SWS), local (neuron-neuron) correlations are not reduced by acoustic stimulation remaining higher than in wakefulness and rapid eye movement sleep and remaining similar to spontaneous activity correlations. This high level of correlations during SWS complements previous work finding elevated global (local field potential-local field potential) correlations during sleep. Contrary to the prediction that slow oscillations in SWS would increase neural correlations during spontaneous activity, we found little change in neural correlations outside of periods of acoustic stimulation. Rather, these findings suggest that functional connections recruited in sound processing are modified during SWS and that slow rhythms, which in general are suppressed by sensory stimulation, are not the sole mechanism leading to elevated network correlations during sleep.
Mammalian high temperature requirement A3 (HtrA3) is a serine protease of the HtrA family. It is an important factor for placental development and a tumor suppressor. The biochemical properties of HtrA3 are uncharacterized. One critical step in biochemical characterization is overexpressing and purifying the full-length recombinant protein. However, utility of cell-based expression systems is limited for a protease because of autocleavage. The wheat-germ cell-free translation system is highly efficient at producing "difficult" eukaryotic multidomain proteins and is easily modifiable for protein synthesis at different temperatures. In this study, we evaluated the potential of the wheat-germ cell-free translation system for producing human HtrA3. HtrA3 underwent autocleavage when synthesized at 17 degrees C. When the synthesis temperature was lowered to 4 degrees C, full-length HtrA3 was successfully produced and proteolytically active. Catalytic site serine substitution with alanine (S305A) stabilized HtrA3 while abolishing its protease activity. This mutant was readily synthesized and stable at 17 degrees C. When used with glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay, S305A HtrA3 was a valuable bait in searching for endogenous HtrA3 binding proteins. Thus, we demonstrated the unique utility of the wheat-germ cell-free translation system for producing and characterizing human HtrA3. These strategies will be likely applicable to a wide range of proteases.
An electrochemical microfluidic strategy for the separation and enantiomeric detection of D-methionine (D-Met) and D-leucine (D-Leu) is presented. These D-amino acids (D-AAs) act as biomarkers involved in relevant diseases caused by Vibrio cholerae. On a single layout microfluidic chip (MC), highly compatible with extremely low biological sample consumption, the strategy allowed the controlled microfluidic D-AA separation and the specific reaction between D-amino acid oxidase (DAAO) and each D-AA biomarker avoiding the use of additives (i.e., cyclodextrins) for enantiomeric separation as well as any covalent immobilization of the enzyme into the wall channels or on the electrode surface such as in the biosensor-based approaches. Hybrid polymer/graphene-based electrodes were end-channel coupled to the microfluidic system to improve the analytical performance. D-Met and D-Leu were successfully detected becoming this proof-of-the-concept a promising principle for the development of point-of-care (POC) devices for in situ screening of V. cholerae related diseases.
Zhivotovsky et al. [L.A. Zhivotovsky, S. Ahmed, W. Wang, A. Bittles, The forensic DNA implications of genetic differentiation between endogamous communities, Forensic Sci. Int. 119 (2001) 269-272] gave an estimate of 0.13 for the coancestry coefficient, theta in three co-resident Pakistani communities. Wang et al. [W. Wang, S.G. Sullivan, S. Ahmed, D. Chandler, L.A. Zhivotovsky, A.H. Bittles, A genome-based study of consanguinity in three co-resident endogamous Pakistan communities, Ann. Hum. Genet. 94 (2000) 41-49] explain that the sampling is from extended families but conclude that "the present findings show that differentiation resulting from genetic stratification by genetic relatedness can be very pronounced in specific populations and thus be important in the evaluation of forensic DNA evidence." In this paper we present simulation results that show that sampling from families will be expected to produce high values of theta regardless of the population value for theta. A theta value estimated in this way cannot be used in formulae suggested by NRC II [NRC II, National Research Council Committee on DNA Forensic Science, The Evaluation of Forensic DNA Evidence, National Academy Press, Washington, DC, 1996] (Eqs. (1) and (2)) to estimate the match probability for a DNA profile in a subpopulation. Whilst it may have some application to estimating the match probability from the pedigree itself there are superior methods for assigning match probabilities for relatives.
The amiloride analogs N5-methyl-N5-isobutylamiloride, N5-ethyl-N5-isopropylamiloride, and N5,N5-hexamethyleneamiloride are frequently used to investigate NaH exchange on the premise that they are highly specific inhibitors of the NaH-antiporters. We assessed the relative protonophoric activity of these compounds in reconstituted and native membrane vesicles, using acridine orange fluorescence to measure intravesicular pH. All the compounds tested were found to be potent protonophores at concentrations which are normally used to demonstrate inhibition of NaH exchange. Uncoupling was dependent on both the pH of the assay system and the total amount of lipid present. At the pH optima, which lay in a range from 7.5 to 8.5, these amiloride analogs were more potent uncouplers than the classical protonophore carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone. Therefore, extreme care must be taken in the interpretation of results obtained using these or similar derivatives of amiloride.
The role of molecular biology in understanding structure/function relationships as well as the influence of metabolic processes on host nutrition is becoming increasingly important. Not only is this field having a major effect in elucidating the detailed structure of nutritionally important enzymes but it is also allowing the nutrition scientist to study metabolic function and the significance of different pathways in whole animals. In this review, the use of gene transfer studies, in particular, the creation of transgenic animals to study mechanisms in which nutrients may regulate gene expression is discussed. Although these studies are presently quite specific, it is envisioned that these studies will ultimately lead to a better understanding of dietary host interactions, which may lead to the ability of the clinician to optimize dietary intake in order to more favorably modify metabolic disorders.
The emergence of a clinically daptomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus isolate occurred during treatment of methicillin-resistant S. aureus bacteremia and probable vertebral osteomyelitis. The breakthrough isolate was indistinguishable from pretreatment daptomycin-susceptible isolates by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Daptomycin nonsusceptibility was confirmed by MIC and time-kill curve analyses.
To gain insight into the molecular genetic basis of cerebellar patterning, the expression patterns of many vertebrate homologues of Drosophila segment polarity genes were examined during normal and abnormal cerebellar development, including members of the En, Wnt, Pax, Gli and Dvl gene families. Five of these genes were found to show transient, spatially restricted patterns of expression. Strikingly, expression of En-2, En-1, Wnt-7B and Pax-2 defined eleven similar sagittal domains at 17.5 dpc, reminiscent of the transient sagittal domains of expression of Purkinje cell markers which have been implicated in cerebellar afferent patterning. Postnatally, transient anterior/posterior differences in expression were observed for En-2, En-1, Gli and Wnt-7B dividing the cerebellum into anterior and posterior regions. The expression patterns of these genes were altered in cerebella of En-2 homozygous mutant mice, which show a cerebellar foliation patterning defect. Strikingly, four of the Wnt-7B expression domains that are adjacent to the En-2 domains are lost in En-2 mutant embryonic cerebella. These studies provide the first evidence of a potential network of regulatory genes that establish spatial cues in the developing cerebellum by dividing it into a grid of positional information required for patterning foliation and afferents. Taken together with previous gene expression studies, our data suggests that eleven sagittal domains and at least two anterior/posterior compartments are the basic elements of spatial information in the cerebellum.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of some culture conditions on production of asiaticoside from centella (Centella asiatica L. Urban) cells cultured in 5-L bioreactor. METHODS: The centell cell suspension culture was conducted in 5-L bioreactor to investigate the growth and asiaticoside accumulation under various conditions. Asiaticoside content was determined by HPLC analysis. RESULTS: The results showed that the cell growth and asiaticoside accumulation peaked after 24 d of culture at an agitation speed of 150 r/min and aeration rate of 2.5 L/min. The cell biomass reached a maximum value of 302.45 g fresh weight (31.45 g dry weight) and growth index of 3.03 with inoculum size of 100 g. However, asiaticoside content was the highest (60.08 mg/g dry weight) when culture was initiated with an inoculum size of 50 g. CONCLUSIONS: The present study found the suitable conditions for growth of centella cells and their asiaticoside production in bioreactor.
In the present study developmental changes in the cerebral sulci and volumes of subcortical and archicortical structures of the cerebrum in cynomolgus monkey fetuses were examined with T(1)-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images in 3D. On the embryonic day (ED) 90, the lateral ventricle had still an immature vesicular shape in the occipital region of the cerebrum, and it dramatically closed its lumen by ED 100. In that period the calcarine sulcus progressively infolded from the medial surface of the cerebral hemisphere narrowing the lumen of the lateral ventricle in the occipital region. Volume of the lateral ventricle decreased in the period ED 90-100, increasing afterwards in spite of increasing volumes of subcortical and archicortical structures such as the caudate nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus, amygdala and hippocampal formation. During the same time, the volume of the germinal matrix around lateral ventricles decreased to disappear completely by ED 120. These results suggest that the morphological maturation of lateral ventricle is linked to the development of calcarine sulcus in cynomolgus monkey fetuses. The degree of infolding of calcarine sulcus on ED 100 would be useful as a gross anatomical landmark for evaluating the cerebral maturation in cynomolgus monkey fetuses.
Exposure to cigarette smoke is known to result in impaired host defense responses and immune suppressive effects. However, the effects of new and emerging tobacco products, such as e-cigarettes, on the immune status of the respiratory epithelium are largely unknown. We conducted a clinical study collecting superficial nasal scrape biopsies, nasal lavage, urine, and serum from nonsmokers, cigarette smokers, and e-cigarette users and assessed them for changes in immune gene expression profiles. Smoking status was determined based on a smoking history and a 3- to 4-wk smoking diary and confirmed using serum cotinine and urine 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (NNAL) levels. Total RNA from nasal scrape biopsies was analyzed using the nCounter Human Immunology v2 Expression panel. Smoking cigarettes or vaping e-cigarettes resulted in decreased expression of immune-related genes. All genes with decreased expression in cigarette smokers (n = 53) were also decreased in e-cigarette smokers. Additionally, vaping e-cigarettes was associated with suppression of a large number of unique genes (n = 305). Furthermore, the e-cigarette users showed a greater suppression of genes common with those changed in cigarette smokers. This was particularly apparent for suppressed expression of transcription factors, such as EGR1, which was functionally associated with decreased expression of 5 target genes in cigarette smokers and 18 target genes in e-cigarette users. Taken together, these data indicate that vaping e-cigarettes is associated with decreased expression of a large number of immune-related genes, which are consistent with immune suppression at the level of the nasal mucosa.
OBJECTIVES: Despite the high prevalence of covert hepatic encephalopathy (CHE) in cirrhotics without previous overt HE (OHE), its independent impact on predicting clinically relevant outcomes is unclear. The aim of this study was to define the impact of CHE on time to OHE, hospitalization, and death/transplant in prospectively followed up patients without previous OHE. METHODS: Outpatient cirrhotics without OHE were enrolled and were administered a standard paper-pencil cognitive battery for CHE diagnosis. They were systematically followed up and time to first OHE development, hospitalization (liver-related/unrelated), and transplant/death were compared between CHE and no-CHE patients at baseline using Cox regression. RESULTS: A total of 170 cirrhotic patients (55 years, 58% men, 14 years of education, Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD 9), 53% hepatitis C virus (HCV), 20% nonalcoholic etiology) were included, of whom 56% had CHE. The entire population was followed up for 13.0 +/- 14.6 months, during which time 30% developed their first OHE episode, 42% were hospitalized, and 19% had a composite death/transplant outcome. Age, gender, etiology, the MELD score, and CHE status were included in Cox regression models for time to first OHE episode, hospitalization, death, and composite death/transplant outcomes. On Cox regression, despite controlling for MELD, those with CHE had a higher risk of developing OHE (hazard ratio: 2.1, 95% confidence interval 1.01-4.5), hospitalization (hazard ratio: 2.5, 95% confidence interval 1.4-4.5), and death/transplant (hazard ratio: 3.4, 95% confidence interval 1.2-9.7) in the follow-up period. CONCLUSIONS: Covert HE is associated with worsened survival and increased risk of hospitalization and OHE development, despite controlling for the MELD score. Strategies to detect and treat CHE may improve these risks.
The murine X-linked gene Chisel (Csl/Smpx) encodes a 9-kDa protein that associates in heart and skeletal muscle cells with the costameric cytoskeleton, implicated in maintaining muscle integrity and responses to biomechanical stress. After expression in C2C12 myoblasts, MYC epitope-tagged Csl co-localized with actin networks at peripheral membranes, and with focal adhesion proteins vinculin, paxillin, integrin beta1, and the small GTPase Rac1. Csl could be co-immunoprecipitated with vinculin from extracts of C2C12 cells and native muscle. MYC-Csl induced cell spreading and lamellipodia formation in C2C12 cells at the expense of filopodia, suggestive of modulation of Rac1 activity. Lamellipodia formation was indeed Rac1-dependent, and in MYC-Csl cells replated on fibronectin, Rac1 activity was increased relative to controls. Expression of MYC-Csl led to an increased association between vinculin and p34, a subunit of the Arp2/3 actin nucleation complex, a Rac1-dependent event. Induced cell spreading was also dependent upon p38 kinases that act downstream of Rac1 to control the actin capping activity of heat shock protein 27. Our data suggest that Csl localizes to the costameric cytoskeleton of muscle cells through an association with focal adhesion proteins, where it may participate in regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics through the Rac1-p38 pathway.
Lipid nanoparticles (LNP) modified with cell-penetrating peptides (CPP) were prepared for the delivery of small interfering RNA (siRNA) into cells. Lipid derivatives of CPP derived from protamine were newly synthesized and used to prepare CPP-decorated LNP (CPP-LNP). Encapsulation of siRNA into CPP-LNP improved the stability of the siRNA in serum. Fluorescence-labeled siRNA formulated in CPP-LNP was efficiently internalized into B16F10 murine melanoma cells in a time-dependent manner, although that in LNP without CPP was hardly internalized into these cells. In cells transfected with siRNA in CPP-LNP, most of the siRNA was distributed in the cytoplasm of these cells and did not localize in the lysosomes. Analysis of the endocytotic pathway indicated that CPP-LNP were mainly internalized via macropinocytosis and heparan sulfate-mediated endocytosis. CPP-LNP encapsulating siRNA effectively induced RNA interference-mediated silencing of reporter genes in B16F10 cells expressing luciferase and in HT1080 human fibrosarcoma cells expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein. These data suggest that modification of LNP with the protamine-derived CPP was effective to facilitate internalization of siRNA in the cytoplasm and thereby to enhance gene silencing.
Alcohol dehydrogenase null mutants have been induced with X rays in Ceratitis capitata, for use in a genetic sexing system. A combination of selective medium and electrophoretic screening was used to identify these mutants. The results indicate that they are probably large deletions since no homozygotes were found for any of the induced mutants.
Over the past several decades there have been multiple studies indicating that infants, toddlers and preschoolers who develop emotional and behavioral problems may not simply outgrow their problems. Early intervention is ideal, and may help to maximize long-term functioning. When other interventions fail or do not fully address the symptoms, psychotropic medications can be very helpful, even in the preschool years. With limited scientific research in this population, the use of psychotropic medications in very young children can be challenging. The judicious use of these agents in this population will be discussed, including weighing the risks and benefits of prescribing to these most vulnerable patients.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Case mix adjustment is required to allow valid comparison of outcomes across care providers. However, there is a lack of externally validated models suitable for use in unselected stroke admissions. We therefore aimed to develop and externally validate prediction models to enable comparison of 30-day post-stroke mortality outcomes using routine clinical data. METHODS: Models were derived (n=9000 patients) and internally validated (n=18 169 patients) using data from the Sentinel Stroke National Audit Program, the national register of acute stroke in England and Wales. External validation (n=1470 patients) was performed in the South London Stroke Register, a population-based longitudinal study. Models were fitted using general estimating equations. Discrimination and calibration were assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis and correlation plots. RESULTS: Two final models were derived. Model A included age (<60, 60-69, 70-79, 80-89, and >/=90 years), National Institutes of Health Stroke Severity Score (NIHSS) on admission, presence of atrial fibrillation on admission, and stroke type (ischemic versus primary intracerebral hemorrhage). Model B was similar but included only the consciousness component of the NIHSS in place of the full NIHSS. Both models showed excellent discrimination and calibration in internal and external validation. The c-statistics in external validation were 0.87 (95% confidence interval, 0.84-0.89) and 0.86 (95% confidence interval, 0.83-0.89) for models A and B, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: We have derived and externally validated 2 models to predict mortality in unselected patients with acute stroke using commonly collected clinical variables. In settings where the ability to record the full NIHSS on admission is limited, the level of consciousness component of the NIHSS provides a good approximation of the full NIHSS for mortality prediction.
Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) virus is endemic in large parts of Europe and Central and Eastern Asia and causes more than 10,000 annual cases of neurological disease in humans. It is closely related to the mosquito-borne yellow fever, dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and West Nile viruses, and vaccination with an inactivated whole-virus vaccine can effectively prevent clinical disease. Neutralizing antibodies are directed to the viral envelope protein (E) and an accepted correlate of immunity. However, data on the specificities of CD4(+) T cells that recognize epitopes in the viral structural proteins and thus can provide direct help to the B cells producing E-specific antibodies are lacking. We therefore conducted a study on the CD4(+) T cell response against the virion proteins in vaccinated people in comparison to TBE patients. The data obtained with overlapping peptides in interleukin-2 (IL-2) enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot) assays were analyzed in relation to the three-dimensional structures of the capsid (C) and E proteins as well as to epitope predictions based on major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II peptide affinities. In the C protein, peptides corresponding to two out of four alpha helices dominated the response in both vaccinees and patients, whereas in the E protein concordance of immunodominance was restricted to peptides of a single domain (domain III). Epitope predictions were much better for C than for E and were especially erroneous for the transmembrane regions. Our data provide evidence for a strong impact of protein structural features that influence peptide processing, contributing to the discrepancies observed between experimentally determined and computer-predicted CD4(+) T cell epitopes. Importance: Tick-borne encephalitis virus is endemic in large parts of Europe and Asia and causes more than 10,000 annual cases of neurological disease in humans. It is closely related to yellow fever, dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and West Nile viruses, and vaccination with an inactivated vaccine can effectively prevent disease. Both vaccination and natural infection induce the formation of antibodies to a viral surface protein that neutralize the infectivity of the virus and mediate protection. B lymphocytes synthesizing these antibodies require help from other lymphocytes (helper T cells) which recognize small peptides derived from proteins contained in the viral particle. Which of these peptides dominate immune responses to vaccination and infection, however, was unknown. In our study we demonstrate which parts of the proteins contribute most strongly to the helper T cell response, highlight specific weaknesses of currently available approaches for their prediction, and demonstrate similarities and differences between vaccination and infection.
Genetic programs controlling self-renewal and multipotentiality of stem cells have overlapping pathways with cell cycle regulation. Components of cell cycle machinery can play a key role in regulating stem cell self-renewal, proliferation, differentiation and aging. Among the negative regulators of cell cycle progression, the RB family members play a prominent role in controlling several aspects of stem cell biology. Stem cells contribute to tissue homeostasis and must have molecular mechanisms that prevent senescence and hold 'stemness'. RB can induce senescence-associated changes in gene expression and its activity is downregulated in stem cells to preserve self-renewal. Several reports evidenced that RB could play a role in lineage specification of several types of stem cells. RB has a role in myogenesis as well as in cardiogenesis. These effects are not only related to its role in suppressing E2F-responsive genes but also to its ability to modulate the activity of tissue-specific transcription factors. RB is also involved in adipogenesis through a strict control of lineage commitment and differentiation of adipocytes as well in determining the switch between brown and white adipocytes. Also, hematopoietic progenitor cells utilize the RB pathway to modulate cell commitment and differentiation. In this review, we will also discuss the role of the other two RB family members: Rb2/p130 and p107 showing that they have both specific and overlapping functions with RB gene.
BACKGROUND: The influence of LH on serum progesterone rise during gonadotrophin stimulation is a matter of debate. The purpose of this analysis was to assess the impact of supplementation with 'LH activity' products on serum progesterone changes before hCG administration in GnRH analog-treated women. METHODS: A computerized literature search was performed to identify studies comparing FSH treatment alone to those that provided supplementation with 'LH activity' using hMG, recombinant (r)LH (rLH) or hCG in GnRH analog protocols. Data regarding stimulation regimens were extracted from those that reported serum progesterone levels at the time of hCG in order to assess the specific role of LH activity products. RESULTS: Serum progesterone determination at the time of hCG administration was performed in 34 out of 108 studies comparing the effects of FSH alone or in combination with LH activity products. In a vast majority, no significant difference in serum progesterone could be found between stimulation regimens. However, in four studies where LH activity (three hMG and one rLH) was administered from the beginning of ovarian stimulation, serum P-values were significantly decreased. In contrast, in two studies where LH activity (hCG) was provided during the late follicular phase, serum P-values were significantly increased. Analysis of confounding factors showed that the intensity of ovarian stimulation is the most important determining factor to explain serum progesterone elevation at the time of hCG administration, CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review shows that providing LH activity supplementation in combination with FSH during ovarian stimulation does not have a consistent effect on serum progesterone concentrations at the time of hCG administration. However, these data also suggest that, in accordance with physiological concept, the timing of LH activity administration could influence the impact on serum progesterone changes.
Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS) is a rare autosomal recessive inheritance disorder of bilirubin metabolism. Herein we reported a complicated but interesting case which is readily resulted in misdiagnosis or an indefinite diagnosis, and this is the first reported familial case of DJS with multiple liver cavernous hemangiomas. A 49-year-old man was referred to our hospital for jaundice and multiple low-density liver masses. Extensive laboratory investigations showed conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia and positive urine bilirubin. Microscopically, lesions were composed of blood-filled vascular channels of various sizes lined by a single layer of flat endothelial cells supported by fibrous tissue. Coarse brown granules presented in the hepatocytes of the liver lobules locating beside the tumor, particularly in the centrilobular hepatocytes, and the granules showed blue-green with Schmorl's reaction lipofuscin staining. Interestingly, one of the patient's six siblings (female) shared the same condition with him. The relationship between DJS and hemangiomas remains unclear, and it might be contributed to some hereditary factors, or probably occurred simultaneously by chance. It was certified that the true reason for the long-term unclear jaundice was DJS, which was presumed clinically to be caused by bile excretion obstacles associated with the hemangiomas. Liver biopsy and histochemical stain may be helpful to identify the reason of jaundice and avoid misdiagnosis or an indefinite diagnosis.
Kinetic characterization of enzymes and analogous catalysts such as catalytic antibodies requires knowledge of the molarity of functional sites. Various stoichiometric titration methods are available for the determination of active-site concentrations of some enzymes and these are exemplified in the second part of this article. Most of these are not general in that they require the existence of certain types of either intermediate or active-site residues that are susceptible to specific covalent modification. Thus they are not readily applicable to many enzymes and they are rarely available currently for titration of catalytic antibody active sites. In the first part of the article we discuss a general kinetic method for the investigation of active-site availability in preparations of macromolecular catalysts. The method involves steady-state kinetics to provide Vmax and Km and single-turnover first-order kinetics using excess of catalyst over substrate to provide the analogous parameters k(obs)lim and K(m)app. The active-site contents of preparations that contain only active catalyst (Ea) and inert material (Ei) may be calculated as [Ea](T) = Vmax)/k(obs)lim. This is true even if nonproductive binding to E(a) occurs. For polyclonal catalytic antibody preparations, which may contain binding but noncatalytic material (Eb) in addition to Ea and Ei, the significance of Vmax/k(obs)lim is more complex but provides an upper limit to E(a). This can be refined by consideration of the relative values of Km and the equilibrium dissociation constant of EbS. Analysis of the Ea, Eb, Ei system requires the separate determination of Ei. For catalytic antibodies this may be achieved by analytical affinity chromatography using an immobilized hapten or hapten analog and an ELISA procedure to ensure the clean separation of Ei from the Ea + Eb mixture.
BACKGROUND: There has been no dearth of scientific literature that genotoxic agents have a causative effect in the pathogenesis of carcinomas. 7,12 dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA), which is a potent organ specific carcinogen, has been found to produce mutagenic effects on cells. Annona squamosa has a long history in traditional Indian medicine for being used to treat several diseases including cancer. OBJECTIVE: Aim of the present study was to investigate the protective role of Annona squamosa bark extracts in DMBA induced genotoxicity in golden Syrian hamsters. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Genotoxicity was induced in golden Syrian hamsters by single intraperitoneal injection of DMBA (30 mg/kg body weight). The antigenotoxic effect of aqueous and ethanolic bark extracts of Annona squamosa was assessed by determining the frequency of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes (MnPCEs) and chromosomal aberrations. RESULTS: The frequency of MnPCEs and chromosomal aberrations in bone marrow were higher in DMBA treated animals as compared to control animals. Oral administration of aqueous and ethanolic bark extracts significantly reduced the frequency of MnPCEs and chromosomal aberration in DMBA treated hamsters. CONCLUSION: Although both extracts have shown antigenotoxic effect, the effect of ethanolic extract was found to be more prominent than the aqueous extract. The present study thus demonstrates the antigenotoxic effect of Annona squamosa bark extracts in DMBA induced genotoxicity in golden Syrian hamsters.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the prevalence of mutations in the coding exon of the GJB2 gene in Iranian children with cochlear implants, and to compare the outcomes of auditory perception and speech production in cochlear-implanted children with and without GJB2 mutation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred and sixty-six prelingually deaf children who had undergone cochlear implantation at the Iranian Cochlear Implant Center, Tehran, were selected from a pool of 428 implanted children. The prevalence of GJB2 gene mutations was assessed using nested polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing. To enable comparisons, we also identified 36 implanted children with non-GJB2 deafness. Patients' speech perception and speech production were assessed using the Categorization of Auditory Performance and Speech Intelligibility Rating scales. RESULTS: Thirty-three of 166 probands (19.9 per cent) were found to have GJB2 deafness-causing allele variants and were diagnosed with DFNB1 deafness. Results also indicated a significant improvement in speech perception and production scores in both GJB2 and non-GJB2 patients over time. CONCLUSION: Children with GJB2-related deafness benefit from cochlear implantation to the same extent as those with non-GJB2-related deafness.
Histone variant H3.3 and heterochromatin protein 1gamma (HP1gamma) are two functional components of chromatin with role in gene transcription. However, the regulations of their dynamics during transcriptional activation and the molecular mechanisms underlying their actions remain poorly understood. Here, we provide evidence that heat shock-induced transcription of the human HSP70 gene is regulated via the coordinated and interdependent action of H3.3 and HP1gamma. H3.3 and HP1gamma are rapidly co-enriched at the human HSP70 promoters upon heat shock in a manner that closely parallels the initiation of transcription. Knockdown of H3.3 prevents the stable recruitment of HP1gamma, inhibits active histone modifications, and attenuates HSP70 promoter activity. Likewise, knockdown of HP1gamma leads to the decreased levels of H3.3 in the promoter regions and the repression of HSP70 genes. HP1gamma selectively recognizes particular modification states of H3.3 in the nucleosome for its action. Moreover, HP1gamma is overexpressed in three representative cancer cell lines, and its knockdown leads to reduction in HSP70 gene transcription and inhibition of cancer cell proliferation. We conclude that the physical and functional interactions between H3.3 and HP1gamma make a unique contribution to acute HSP70 transcription and cancer development related to the misregulation of this transcription event.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Significant advances in knowledge of chromoblastomycosis and its etiologic agents have been made in the past 5 years. New explanations and approaches that could resolve persisting medical challenges for this orphan disease are reviewed here. RECENT FINDINGS: In recent years advances have been made regarding the taxonomy and ecoepidemiology of the etiologic agents, basic knowledge of the pathogenesis of the lesions, especially the fibrotic process, and the immunologic response to chromoblastomycosis. Conversely there have been no recent significant advances in knowledge of the genetic polymorphism of the wild isolates or in development of experimental models, impairing the possibility of in-depth clinicopathologic investigations. As a result medical management is dependent on the development of diagnostic and therapeutic tools developed for other fungal diseases. SUMMARY: Recent findings are applicable in laboratory and medical practice. Benefits can accrue to basic knowledge from data collected on other cutaneous diseases of parasitic or bacterial origin.
A novel polymer, oligo(poly(ethylene glycol) fumarate) (OPF), cross-linked with a thermal radical initiation system has recently been developed in our laboratory as an injectable, biodegradable cell carrier for regeneration of orthopaedic tissues. The cross-linking, swelling, and degradative properties of hydrogels prepared from OPF with poly(ethylene glycol) of two different chain lengths were assessed. The two OPF types had similar gelation onset times ( approximately 3.6 min) but, when cross-linked for 8 min at 37 degrees C, exhibited significantly different swelling characteristics (fold swelling: 17.5 +/- 0.2 vs 13.4 +/- 0.4). Rat marrow stromal cells (MSCs) were then directly combined with the hydrogel precursors and encapsulated in a model OPF formulation at approximately 14 million cells/mL, cultured in vitro in the presence of osteogenic supplements (dexamethasone), and monitored over 28 days via histology. MSC differentiation in these samples (6 mm diameter x 0.5 mm thick before swelling), as determined by Von Kossa staining for calcified matrix, was apparent by day 21. At day 28, mineralized matrix could be seen throughout the samples, many microns away from the cells. These experiments strongly support the usefulness of thermally cross-linked OPF hydrogels as injectable cell carriers for bone regeneration.
BACKGROUND: Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a heterogeneous group of rare diseases that primarily affect the pulmonary interstitium. Studies have implicated a role for telomere length (TL) maintenance in ILD, particularly in idiopathic interstitial pneumonia (IIP). Here, we measure TL in a wide spectrum of sporadic and familial cohorts of ILD and compare TL between patient cohorts and control subjects. METHODS: A multiplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction method was used to measure TL in 173 healthy subjects and 359 patients with various ILDs, including familial interstitial pneumonia (FIP). The FIP cohort was divided into patients carrying TERT mutations, patients carrying SFTPA2 or SFTPC mutations, and patients without a proven mutation (FIP-no mutation). RESULTS: TL in all cases of ILD was significantly shorter compared with those of control subjects (P range: .038 to < .0001). Furthermore, TL in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) was significantly shorter than in patients with other IIPs (P = .002) and in patients with sarcoidosis (P < .0001). Within the FIP cohort, patients in the FIP-telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) group had the shortest telomeres (P < .0001), and those in the FIP-no mutation group had TL comparable to that of patients with IPF (P = .049). Remarkably, TL of patients with FIP-surfactant protein (SFTP) was significantly longer than in patients with IPF, but similar to that observed in patients with other sporadic IIPs. CONCLUSIONS: The results show telomere shortening across all ILD diagnoses. The difference in TL between the FIP-TERT and FIP-SFTP groups indicates the distinction between acquired and innate telomere shortening. Short TL in the IPF and FIP-no mutation groups is indicative of an innate telomere-biology defect, while a stress-induced, acquired telomere shortening might be the underlying process for the other ILD diagnoses.
The oncoplacental protein SP1 is found in large quantities in human placenta, amniotic fluid, and pregnancy serum. Low levels have been reported in association with malignancy but also in healthy nonpregnant individuals. By indirect immunofluorescence, fluorescence-activated cell sorting, and immunoprecipitation we here demonstrate the presence of SP1 both on the surface and in the cytoplasm of human granulocytes but not in earlier myeloid progenitor cells in bone marrow. Lymphocytes did not contain the protein, and only trace amounts could be found in the cytoplasm of blood monocytes. A major glycoprotein with an apparent mol wt of 90,000 was obtained by immunoprecipitation of surface-labeled granulocytes. Cultivated blood monocytes, while adhering to surfaces or forming multinuclear giant cells, displayed a strong membrane and cytoplasmic expression of SP1. Treatment of the myeloid leukemia cell line ML-2 with tetraphorbol acetate (TPA) strongly induced SP1 in the membrane and cytoplasm as revealed by immunofluorescence and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) of immunoprecipitates from lysates of surface radiolabeled cells. The induction of synthesis of SP1 in TPA-treated cells was confirmed by immunoprecipitation from lysates of cells metabolically labeled with 35S-methionine. Human lymphoblastoid and erythroleukemic cell lines did not express SP1 either before or after induced differentiation. Thus SP1 provides a late differentiation marker for the myelomonocytic lineage and is strongly induced during macrophage differentiation or by TPA treatment of ML-2 cells.
BACKGROUND: Previous suicide assessment research has led to standard predictors of risk. Despite this, there are approximately 30,000 suicides per year in the United States, 5% to 6% of which occur in hospitals. The primary purpose of this study is to improve our ability to assess risk and intervene successfully. METHOD: Charts from 76 patients who committed suicide while in the hospital, or immediately after discharge, were reviewed. The week before suicide was rated for both standard risk predictors and, using items from the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia (SADS), for presence and severity of symptoms found to be correlated with acute risk in recent studies. RESULTS: Regarding standard predictors, only 49% (N = 37) had any prior suicide attempt and 25% (N = 19) were admitted for this reason. Thirty-nine percent (30/76) were admitted for suicidal ideation, but 78% denied suicidal ideation at their last communication about this; 46% (N = 35) showed no evidence of psychosis; of those on precautions (N = 45), 51% (N = 23) were on q 15 minute suicide checks or 1:1 observation; and 28% (N = 21) had a no-suicide contract in effect. On SADS ratings, 79% (N = 60) met criteria for severe or extreme anxiety and/or agitation. CONCLUSION: Standard risk assessments and standard precautions used were of limited value in protecting this group from suicide. Adding severity of anxiety and agitation to our current assessments may help identify patients at acute risk and suggest effective treatment interventions. The importance of a matched comparison group to ascertain if this sample can be blindly discriminated from inpatients who do not commit suicide is clear.
PURPOSE: Pediatric brain tumors are the second most common cancer diagnosis in individuals under age 20 and research has documented significant neurocognitive, psychosocial, and emotional late effects. Associations among these deficits have not been adequately considered and the role of survivors' coping with stress in relation to deficits is unknown. Further, research has yet to examine neurobiological processes related to neurocognitive, psychosocial, and emotional difficulties in survivors through the use of functional neuroimaging. METHOD: Questionnaire measures and functional neuroimaging were used to examine the neurocognitive, psychosocial, and emotional functioning and coping responses of survivors of pediatric brain tumors (N = 17; age 8-16) and healthy children (N = 15). RESULTS: Survivors experienced elevated levels of psychosocial and behavioral/emotional difficulties relative to healthy controls and normative data. Increases in brain activation in prefrontal and other anterior regions in response to a working memory task were associated with better psychosocial functioning, use of engagement coping strategies, and less use of disengagement coping strategies. Regression analyses suggest coping accounts for a significant portion of the association between brain activation and behavioral/emotional functioning. CONCLUSIONS: This study extends late-effects research by examining neurobiological processes associated with psychosocial and emotional difficulties. These findings contribute to our understanding of difficulties in survivors and provide a foundation for research exploring these associations and mediators of deficits in future longitudinal studies.
The prevalence of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, HNSCC, continues to grow. Change in the expression of TP53 in HNSCC affects its downstream miRNAs and their gene targets, anomalously altering the expressions of the five genes, MEIS1, AGTR1, DTL, TYMS and BAK1. These expression alterations follow the repression of TP53 that upregulates miRNA-107, miRNA- 215, miRNA-34 b/c and miRNA-125b, but downregulates miRNA-155. The above five so far unreported genes are the targets of these miRNAs. Meta-analyses of microarray and RNA-Seq data followed by qRT-PCR validation unravel these new ones in HNSCC. The regulatory roles of TP53 on miRNA-155 and miRNA-125b differentiate the expressions of AGTR1 and BAK1in HNSCC vis-a-vis other carcinogenesis. Expression changes alter cell cycle regulation, angiogenic and blood cell formation, and apoptotic modes in affliction. Pathway analyses establish the resulting systems-level functional and mechanistic insights into the etiology of HNSCC.
OBJECTIVES: The prevention of mental illness involves identifying and modifying those characteristics and exposures of an individual that threaten their mental health - commonly referred to as risk factors. Existing categorisations of risk factors for mental illness are either limited in their scope or oversimplified in their description. As part of a large mental health workforce and service planning project, we set out to develop a more detailed and comprehensive categorisation scheme to describe risk factors for mental illness. METHODS: We conducted a rapid review of MEDLINE and Google Scholar for meta-analytic studies that examined the characteristics and exposures that typify the population with mental illness in order to identify and categorise potential risk factors. RESULTS: The search uncovered 1628 relevant studies, from which 10 primary and 23 secondary categories of risk factors were identified, ranging from genetic and biomedical to psychological and sociocultural. The review revealed interesting distortions in the focus of the literature, with the majority of studies focused on a few disorders (schizophrenia, depression and neurodegenerative disorders) and genetic, psychological and physiological risks. In contrast, environmental (e.g. media exposure) and occupational (e.g. employee health) were under-represented. CONCLUSION: The categorisation scheme developed in this paper is a step towards a more detailed taxonomy of risk factors for mental illness; this will be most useful in guiding clinicians, researchers and policy-makers in driving the prevention agenda forward.
Evidence-based practice (EBP) is a requirement of nurses through the generation of evidence to implementing it, in a bid to to improve clinical practice. However, EBP is difficult to achieve. This paper highlights an approach to generating evidence for enhancing community nursing services for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) through a collaborative partnership. A district nurse and two nursing lecturers formed a partnership to devise a systematic review protocol and perform a systematic review to enhance COPD practice. This paper illustrates the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) systematic review process, the review outcomes and the practitioner learning. Collaborative partnerships between academics, researchers and clinicians are a potentially useful model to facilitate enhanced outcomes in evidence-based practice and evidence application.
The fundamental difference between classic and modern biology is that technological innovations allow to generate high-throughput data to get insights into molecular interactions on a genomic scale. These high-throughput data can be used to infer gene networks, e.g., the transcriptional regulatory or signaling network, representing a blue print of the current dynamical state of the cellular system. However, gene networks do not provide direct answers to biological questions, instead, they need to be analyzed to reveal functional information of molecular working mechanisms. In this paper we propose a new approach to analyze the transcriptional regulatory network of yeast to predict cell cycle regulated genes. The novelty of our approach is that, in contrast to all other approaches aiming to predict cell cycle regulated genes, we do not use time series data but base our analysis on the prior information of causal interactions among genes. The major purpose of the present paper is to predict cell cycle regulated genes in S. cerevisiae. Our analysis is based on the transcriptional regulatory network, representing causal interactions between genes, and a list of known periodic genes. No further data are used. Our approach utilizes the causal membership of genes and the hierarchical organization of the transcriptional regulatory network leading to two groups of periodic genes with a well defined direction of information flow. We predict genes as periodic if they appear on unique shortest paths connecting two periodic genes from different hierarchy levels. Our results demonstrate that a classical problem as the prediction of cell cycle regulated genes can be seen in a new light if the concept of a causal membership of a gene is applied consequently. This also shows that there is a wealth of information buried in the transcriptional regulatory network whose unraveling may require more elaborate concepts than it might seem at first.
A single intravenous injection of L-[(3)H]fucose, a specific glycoprotein precursor, was given to young 35-45 g rats which were sacrificed at times varying between 2 min and 30 h later. Radioautography of over 50 cell types, including renewing and nonrenewing cells, was carried out for light and electron microscope study. At early time intervals (2-10 min after injection), light microscope radioautography showed a reaction over nearly all cells investigated in the form of a discrete clump of silver grains over the Golgi region. This reaction varied in intensity and duration from cell type to cell type. Electron microscope radioautographs of duodenal villus columnar cells and kidney proximal and distal tubule cells at early time intervals revealed that the silver grains were restricted to Golgi saccules. These observations are interpreted to mean that glycoproteins undergoing synthesis incorporate fucose in the saccules of the Golgi apparatus. Since fucose occurs as a terminal residue in the carbohydrate side chains of glycoproteins, the Golgi saccules would be the site of completion of synthesis of these side chains. At later time intervals, light and electron microscope radioautography demonstrated a decrease in the reaction intensity of the Golgi region, while reactions appeared over other parts of the cells: lysosomes, secretory material, and plasma membrane. The intensity of the reactions observed over the plasma membrane varied considerably in various cell types; furthermore the reactions were restricted to the apical surface in some types, but extended to the whole surface in others. Since the plasma membrane is covered by a "cell coat" composed of the carbohydrate-rich portions of membrane glycoproteins, it is concluded that newly formed glycoproteins, after acquiring fucose in the Golgi apparatus, migrate to the cell surface to contribute to the cell coat. This contribution implies turnover of cell coat glycoproteins, at least in nonrenewing cell types, such as those of kidney tubules. In the young cells of renewing populations, e.g. those of gastro-intestinal epithelia, the new glycoproteins seem to contribute to the growth as well as the turnover of the cell coat. The differences in reactivity among different cell types and cell surfaces imply considerable differences in the turnover rates of the cell coats.
Several groups of tetrapods have expanded sesamoid (small, tendon-anchoring) bones into digit-like structures ("predigits"), such as pandas' "thumbs." Elephants similarly have expanded structures in the fat pads of their fore- and hindfeet, but for three centuries these have been overlooked as mere cartilaginous curiosities. We show that these are indeed massive sesamoids that employ a patchy mode of ossification of a massive cartilaginous precursor and that the predigits act functionally like digits. Further, we reveal clear osteological correlates of predigit joint articulation with the carpals/tarsals that are visible in fossils. Our survey shows that basal proboscideans were relatively "flat-footed" (plantigrade), whereas early elephantiforms evolved the more derived "tip-toed" (subunguligrade) morphology, including the predigits and fat pad, of extant elephants. Thus, elephants co-opted sesamoid bones into a role as false digits and used them for support as they changed their foot posture.
Using a newly developed extracellular vibrating electrode, we have made the first study of the spatial distribution of the growth currents around a single developing egg. This pattern was studied during the current pulses wihic traverse two-celled Pelvetia embryos. These pulses can be stimulated to occur with a periodicity of 70 min by mild acidification of the dea water medium. Current enters only at the growing rhizoid's tip while leaving both the base of the rhizoid cell and the whole outer membrane of the thallus cell. The field in front of the rhizoid cell falls off as the inverse cube of the distance from the rhizoid cell's center in the manner of a dipole field. The total inward and outward currents are equal, agreeing with theory. The current density at the rhizoid cell's base is twice that at the top of the thallus cell and this probably represents a change in the outer membrane's properties. There are no significant differences in the durrent density over the thallus cell. These results suggest a model in which the pulse current leaks in through newly opened channels in the growing tip and leaks out elsewhere due to the resultant fall in the membrane potential.
INTRODUCTION: We have previously demonstrated that chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycans (CS-GAGs) on breast cancer cells function as P-selectin ligands. This study was performed to identify the carrier proteoglycan (PG) and the sulfotransferase gene involved in synthesis of the surface P-selectin-reactive CS-GAGs in human breast cancer cells with high metastatic capacity, as well as to determine a direct role for CS-GAGs in metastatic spread. METHODS: Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and flow cytometry assays were used to detect the expression of genes involved in the sulfation and presentation of chondroitin in several human breast cancer cell lines. Transient transfection of the human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 with the siRNAs for carbohydrate (chondroitin 4) sulfotransferase-11 (CHST11) and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4 ) was used to investigate the involvement of these genes in expression of surface P-selectin ligands. The expression of CSPG4 and CHST11 in 15 primary invasive breast cancer clinical specimens was assessed by qRT-PCR. The role of CS-GAGs in metastasis was tested using the 4T1 murine mammary cell line (10 mice per group). RESULTS: The CHST11 gene was highly expressed in aggressive breast cancer cells but significantly less so in less aggressive breast cancer cell lines. A positive correlation was observed between the expression levels of CHST11 and P-selectin binding to cells (P < 0.0001). Blocking the expression of CHST11 with siRNA inhibited CS-A expression and P-selectin binding to MDA-MB-231 cells. The carrier proteoglycan CSPG4 was highly expressed on the aggressive breast cancer cell lines and contributed to the P-selectin binding and CS-A expression. In addition, CSPG4 and CHST11 were over-expressed in tumor-containing clinical tissue specimens compared with normal tissues. Enzymatic removal of tumor-cell surface CS-GAGs significantly inhibited lung colonization of the 4T1 murine mammary cell line (P = 0.0002). CONCLUSIONS: Cell surface P-selectin binding depends on CHST11 gene expression. CSPG4 serves as a P-selectin ligand through its CS chain and participates in P-selectin binding to the highly metastatic breast cancer cells. Removal of CS-GAGs greatly reduces metastatic lung colonization by 4T1 cells. The data strongly indicate that CS-GAGs and their biosynthetic pathways are promising targets for the development of anti-metastatic therapies.
Borrowing concepts from the schema theory of genetic algorithms, we have developed a computational algorithm to identify the fragments of proteins, or schemas, that can be recombined without disturbing the integrity of the three-dimensional structure. When recombination leaves these schemas undisturbed, the hybrid proteins are more likely to be folded and functional. Crossovers found by screening libraries of several randomly shuffled proteins for functional hybrids strongly correlate with those predicted by this approach. Experimental results from the construction of hybrids of two beta-lactamases that share 40% amino acid identity demonstrate a threshold in the amount of schema disruption that the hybrid protein can tolerate. To the extent that introns function to promote recombination within proteins, natural selection would serve to bias their locations to schema boundaries.
A peptidoglycan-associated lipoprotein (PAL) fused to an antibody fragment (scFv) specific to the herbicide and environmental pollutant atrazine, has been successfully targeted to the cell surface of Escherichia coli. Anti-atrazine binding could be observed via an atrazine-alkaline phosphatase conjugate. Cells containing the PAL fusion grew with little cellular toxicity when compared with the control. In contrast, expression of anti-atrazine antibody fragments alone caused the cells to lyse after 4 h. The surface display of anti-pollutant antibodies may have a future role in the bioremediation of contaminated water or the development of pollutant-specific, whole-cell biosensors.
Uridine phosphorylase catalyzes the phosphorolysis of ribonucleosides, with the nitrogenous base and ribose 1-phosphate as products. Additionally, it catalyzes the reverse reaction of the synthesis of ribonucleosides from ribose 1-phosphate and a nitrogenous base. However, the enzyme does not catalyze the synthesis of nucleosides when the substrate is a nitrogenous base substituted at the 6-position, such as 6-methyluracil (6-MU). In order to explain this fact, it is essential to investigate the three-dimensional structure of the complex of 6-MU with uridine phosphorylase. 6-MU is a pharmaceutical agent that improves tissue nutrition and enhances cell regeneration by normalization of nucleotide exchange in humans. 6-MU is used for the treatment of diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, including infectious diseases. Here, procedures to obtain the uridine phosphorylase from the pathogenic bacterium Vibrio cholerae (VchUPh), purification of this enzyme, crystallization of the complex of VchUPh with 6-MU, and X-ray data collection and preliminary X-ray analysis of the VchUPh-6-MU complex at atomic resolution are reported.
RNA-binding proteins are at the heart of posttranscriptional gene regulation, coordinating the processing, storage, and handling of cellular RNAs. We show here that GRSF1, previously implicated in the binding and selective translation of influenza mRNAs, is targeted to mitochondria where it forms granules that colocalize with foci of newly synthesized mtRNA next to mitochondrial nucleoids. GRSF1 preferentially binds RNAs transcribed from three contiguous genes on the light strand of mtDNA, the ND6 mRNA, and the long noncoding RNAs for cytb and ND5, each of which contains multiple consensus binding sequences. RNAi-mediated knockdown of GRSF1 leads to alterations in mitochondrial RNA stability, abnormal loading of mRNAs and lncRNAs on the mitochondrial ribosome, and impaired ribosome assembly. This results in a specific protein synthesis defect and a failure to assemble normal amounts of the oxidative phosphorylation complexes. These data implicate GRSF1 as a key regulator of posttranscriptional mitochondrial gene expression.
The most widely held view on the pathogenesis of Hirschsprung's disease as an arrest of neuroblast migration in the gut was based on the hypothesis of a single craniocaudal gradient of development of enteric neurons. Recent experimental studies in animals, however, have revived a contradictory hypothesis of a dual gradient of neuronal development; such data are not available in humans. To test these hypotheses in humans, we studied the pylorus, ileum, and colon of 28 fetuses with gestational ages of 9-21 wk, using immunohistochemical localization of neuron-specific enolase, a specific neuronal marker indicative of differentiation. Development of the enteric nervous system was shown to be most advanced in the pylorus, less so in the colon, and least so in the ileum. The findings support the hypothesis of a dual gradient of neuronal development proceeding from both ends to the middle of the gut in midtrimester human fetuses and suggest that the pathogenesis of Hirschsprung's disease needs to be reconsidered.
INTRODUCTION: Polyoma BK virus (BKV) has recently been identified to cause renal allograft dysfunction, which manifests as polyomavirus-associated nephropathy (PVAN). However, the presence and level of BKV DNA in renal allograft patients with good and stable renal function have remained undetermined. METHODS: In this prospective study, serum samples were collected from a total of 45 renal allograft recipients with serum creatinine <155 mumol/L. In 17 patients, whose duration of transplantation was under 2 years, samples were collected at 3-4-month intervals for up to 2 years after transplantation. BK viral load was quantified using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR). RESULTS: The BK viral load in asymptomatic renal allograft recipients was independent of the duration of transplantation and did not correlate with allograft function. The mean (+/- SD) level of viremia was 552.80 +/- 1931.00 genome copies/mL, with 92.9% of patients having low levels of viremia corresponding to <1 x 10(3) copies/mL. In contrast, patients with proven PVAN had levels in the range of 10(6) copies/mL. CONCLUSIONS: The prevailing BK viral load in asymptomatic renal allograft patients is quantifiably low. Our findings may guide optimal immunosuppressive modulation in PVAN cases, where judicious manipulation of immunosuppression is required without inciting allograft rejection.
The nucleoprotein genes of 49 measles virus (MV) strains circulating in Russia between 2000 and 2006 and in Vietnam in 2003 were analyzed by genotype-specific PCR and the results were compared with their sequences. The sequences revealed the presence of genotypes H1 and H2 in the center (Nha Trang) and the north (Hanoi) of Vietnam, respectively. The relative diversity of the H2 strains suggested an endemic circulation of these viruses in the capital. In contrast genotype H1 strains from Nha Trang were homogenous genetically, which may indicate a recent importation. The strains obtained from 12 different regions of the Russian Federation were assigned to the genotypes H1, D4, and D6. Most strains (81.4%) were correctly genotyped by a multiplex PCR method which was sensitive to genotype-specific mutations [Kremer et al. (2004): J Clin Microbiol 42: 3017-3022]. Ambiguous or negative results for some clade H and genotype D6 strains were due to point mutations in the type-specific primer binding sites. After exchanging a single nucleotide in both the clade H- and the genotype D6-specific primers, all strains were assigned correctly to their genotype. A simplified procedure for use in Vietnam was developed to distinguish directly between genotypes H1 and H2 and any non-H genotype. These results demonstrate that our multiplex PCR method can be adapted easily to new sequence variants or specific epidemiological situations, and thus be very useful for rapid genotyping of large number of samples even in laboratories which do not have sequencing facilities.